SOURCE URL: https://vignan.ac.in/newvignan/admissions.php

VFSTR Admissions 2026 – Apply for B.Tech, MBA, and More
Vignan University
విజ్ఞాన్ శాస్త్ర సాంకేతిక పరిశోధనా సంస్థ / विग्नान शास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और परिशोधन संगठन
Careers
Alumni
Admissions
Mandatory Disclosure
Quick links
International Students
Hyd (Off Campus)
Vignan Online
Webmail
Mandatory Disclosures
IQAC
FIIP
Industry Relations
Pay Tuition Fee
AR Complaint form
Contact Us
Home
Academics
Programs
Schools
Assessments
Academic Calendar
Policies & handbooks
Why choose us?
Regulations
Admission
Research
Project Funding Opportunities
Research Meetings
ODEC Meetings
People
Faculty
University
Life
About Us
HYD Campus
New Student
Convocation LIVE
Parent
DSIR Recognition
The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) is a part of the Ministry of Science and Technology, which was announced through a Presidential Notification, dated January 4, 1985 (74/2/1/8 Cab.) contained in the 164th Amendment of the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961.The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) has a mandate to carry out the activities relating to indigenous technology promotion, development, utilisation and transfer
DSIR has been decided to accord the recognition to Vignan’s foundation of Science & Research (Deemed to be University), Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh from 30 Aug 2018 to 31 Mar 2021.
View Document
NBA Recognition
View Document (2020-23)
View Document (2023-26)
View Document (2026-28)
REFUND/CANCELLATION POLICY
Fee refund norms against cancellation of admissions:
For cancellation of admission, the issue of refund of tuition fee to student shall be decided in the light of MHRD circular, UGC norms (UGC regulations 2016, 6.2) and University policy. The broad rules for refund of tution fee against cancellation of seat are:
Admission fee is non-refundable, once student is provisionally admitted.
Tuition fee paid will be refunded if the student cancel his /her admission before the commencement of class work.
Prior to closing of admissions and after commencement of class work, tuition fee is refundable with proportionate deduction of monthly fee.
Once admissions are closed, the entire fee collected shall be forfeited.
ARIIA
Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) is an initiative of Ministry of Education (MoE), Govt. of India to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities in India on indicators related to “Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development” amongst students and faculties. The first edition was launched in 2019.
The methodology designed to calculate ARIIA metrics considers all major parameters/ indicators used globally to rank education institutions for innovation output. Additionally, ARIIA also measures some parameters which are India specific considering the current scenario and status of higher education in India.
Vignan Institute’s departments like Bio-tech, Food, Agricultural and Engineering Technologies s are part of innovation and startup ecosystem of the institute.
ABET Recognition
The university has secured ABET Accreditation for Five of its programs: CSE, EEE, ECE, Mechanical Engineering and Biotechnology.
This prestigious American based Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) places Vignan's
University among the 12 exclusive institutions in India to attain this
rare distinction.
Graduates from ABET-accredited programs benefit from global recognition of their degrees, enhanced employability, and opportunities for high-profile careers
and advanced studies at leading organisations worldwide.
PRIVACY POLICY
The Privacy Policy governs the use of this website.
VFSTR University is committed to protect your privacy and works towards offering you a useful, safe online experience.
Your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given by VFSTR University, to any other institution for any reason whatsoever, without your consent.
VFSTR University reserves the right, in its discretion, to change or modify all or any part of this Agreement at any time, effective immediately upon notice published on the site. Your continued use of the website constitutes your binding acceptance of these terms and conditions, including any changes or modifications made by Vignan University as permitted above.
VFSTR University treats your personal information or your use of the service as private and confidential and does not check, edit or reveal it to any third party except where it believes in good faith, such action is necessary to comply with the applicable legal and regulatory processes or to protect and defend the rights of other users or to enforce the terms of service which are binding on all the users of the site.
Except where specifically agreed upon or necessary for operational or regulatory reasons VFSTR University will not send you any unsolicited information via e-mail. The user can nevertheless unsubscribe from receipt of such e-mails by following instructions therein.
VFSTR University may collect unnamed statistics, which do not personally identify you and reserves the right to perform statistical analyses of user behavior and characteristics in order to measure interest in and use of the various areas of the site.
The information contents provided on this site cannot be copied, modified, uploaded, downloaded, published or republished, transmitted or otherwise distributed for commercial purposes without prior and explicit permission from the concerned authorities.
Reproduction of any information or material provided on this website, with or without any modification, is prohibited unless, with prior permission of Vignan University and shall amount to violation of copyright and would be deemed an illegal act.
All matters of dispute shall be dealt under the jurisdiction of Calcutta High Court
Terms & Conditions
Admissions open
for 2026
Thank you for choosing us. You're making the right decision to pursue your dreams.
Download Brochure
How to Reach
Admissions open for 2026
Apply to Programs
Under Graduate Program
Fee Details
Apply Now
B.Tech
Bachelors of Technology
4 years
View All Programs
B.Pharm
Bachelors of Pharmacy
BCA / BCA (Hons)
Bachelor of Computer Applications
3/4 years
B.Sc. (Hons.) Agriculture
BA.LLB(Hons.)
Law Department
5 years
BBA / BBA (Hons)
Bachelor of Business Administration
BBA.LLB (Hons.)
ITEP
Integrated Teacher Education Programme
B.Sc. / B.Sc. (Hons)
Bachelor of Science
Lateral Entry
3 years
Post Graduate Program
Master of Computer Application
2 years
M.Sc
Master of Science
Doctor of Pharmacy
M.A. English
Master of Arts
MBA (Business Management)
Business Management
M.Tech
Masters of Technology
M. Pharmacy - Pharmaceutics
M. Pharmacy in Pharmaceutics
Diploma Program
Diploma
Polytechnic Education
Ph.D.
Ph.D
V-SAT
V-SAT stands for Vignan's Scholastic Aptitude Test which is designed as an entrance for UG programme. Students are admitted based on their performance in the V-SAT written exam, EAMCET, JEE Mains/Advanced, and Inter scores. The V-SAT exam pattern mirrors that of JEE Main and EAMCET, and sample papers are available for download on Vignan's website.
Check Eligibility
Sample papers
Important Dates
March
Issue of Applications
Jan-Mar
Exam dates of VSAT
Explore an International Experience
Set specific, high-achieving goals to start your enrichment journey. These key milestones will illuminate your journey, bringing meaning and motivation to life and forming a fulfilling and prosperous future. You enable yourself to take advantage of every chance and reach your full potential when you have well-defined goals.
Placement details
Placements
upto
Scholarship on Tuition fee
Worth of Scholarships
Preference in the allotment of scholarship seats for candidates who qualify for V-SAT-26...
Read More
Fee with Respect to
KUNITA RAO
Education Loans
More than 14 banks, comprising both public and private institutions across India, to offer customized education loan solutions suited to your requirements.
Eligibility for loan applications requires individuals who have attained a minimum of 60% in their board exams in a single attempt. These loans cover various expenses such as tuition fees, hostel charges, transportation, and book purchases. UCO Bank, conveniently located on campus, facilitates these loan services.
Students have the flexibility to repay their loans after graduation, upon embarking on their professional journeys, adhering to RBI regulations and prescribed guidelines.
View all list of banks
Higher Education Institutions
Accreditations
Vignan University has garnered notable accolades and recognition. In 2024, it ranked 72nd in NIRF's university rankings. The university holds an 'A+' grade from NAAC and NBA tier-1 accreditation for key programmes like CSE, ECE, EEE, Mechanical Engineering, and Biotechnology. It also holds 12(B) status, AICTE approval, and DSIR certification. Furthermore, VFSTR received a DIAMOND rating in QS-I-GAUGE accreditation, with a remarkable score of 90%.
What People Say
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why Vignan?
VFSTR, deemed to be university, provides a stimulating ambience in pursuit of higher studies in a multicultural campus environment.
2. Is distance learning available at the graduate level?
Yes. To find accredited online distance learning programs, please search the
Vignanonline
3. What can I expect about Student Information for Placement?
We provide a wide range of companies for placement; students will be routed to CRT sessions to prepare them for interviews and ensure they are fully prepared before they leave university.
4. What kind of programs is offered in Vignan University?
Offering Diploma, UG, PG, and Ph.D. programs, all lab facilities and fostering a sense of belonging among students. There will be intellectual, cultural, and many more events.
Admission Open for 2025
Proceed to Apply
V-SAT Exam
Every student should appear in V-SAT Exam to get admission in Vignan
Know More
Scholarship
All student will get discount on Tuition fee, depending on V-SAT results.
Departments
Choosing department is important as your career Depends on it
Important dates : Issue of Applications Oct 15th , 2024 - V-SAT exam dates may on Jan-Apr 15, 2026
Admission Open for 2026
Explore more about PHD admissions
Banks List
State Bank of India
Punjab National Bank
Bank of Baroda
Syndicate Bank
Andhra Bank
Bank of India
Allahabad Bank
Central Bank of India
Indiaoverseas Bank
UCO Bank
Bank of Maharastra
Punjab and Sindh Bank
Canara Bank
Scholarships galore!
Fee Structure and Reservation Criteria
Money is a concern for all students.
There is a tuition fee to be paid and living expenses to be covered. A little research into how much money you will need to cover your living expenses and the scholarships available can help you enormously in managing your finances.
Preference in the allotment of scholarship seats for candidates who qualify for V-SAT’26.
25% of the total seats in each programme are reserved for scholarships. Out of that, 5% seats are allotted with a 75% scholarship, 10% seats are allotted with a 50% scholarship, and 10% seats have a 25% scholarship. (For example, out of 60 seats, the distribution will be: 3 seats with 75% scholarship, 6 seats with 50% scholarship, and 6 seats with 25% scholarship.)
Scholarship seats are allotted in all programmes on the basis of merit, availability of seats, and on a first-come, first-served basis.
The scholarship is applicable for four years of study, subject to the maintenance of a minimum 7.0 CGPA in the preceding year(s) without any backlogs.
The rank in JEE (Mains/Advanced) should be All India Marks / Ranks in their respective categories.
Eligibility Criteria
Eligibility for UG Program
Candidates born on or after 1st July, 2005 and a pass in Intermediate or its equivalent with minimum 60% aggregate marks
are eligible to appear for the admission test.
Admission to B.Tech. / B.Pharmacy / B.Sc (Hons) Agriculture / Pharm-D programmes will be through Vignan’s Scholastic Aptitude Test, V-SAT an on-line test, conducted by Vignan’s Deemed to be University on all India basis.
Candidates qualified in AP or TS EAMCET / JEE(Mains) / JEE(Advanced) with a minimum 60% aggregate marks in the
+2 / Intermediate examinations are also eligible for admission.
Eligibility for PG Program
M.Tech:
Qualified in GATE/PGECET/VUGATE with 50% aggregate marks in qualifying examination. GATE Qualified(or) >80% in B.Tech, GATE Qualified(or) >80% in B.Tech, >60% in B.Tech & Qualified in VUGATE
MBA:
55% in any Bachelor's Degree and qualified in ICET / MAT Score above 500 / Min. 70 percentile in CAT (OR) 60% in B.Tech. Written Test will be conducted for Bachelor's Degree holders who have not appeared in any entrance test. Syllabus for the written test: same as I-CET Qualified in Written Test, Group Discussion and Personal Interview
MCA:
ICET below 5000 Rank with above 60% in qualifying exam (OR) above 80% in qualifying exam.
MA English:
60% (above 6.5 CGPA) aggregate marks in any Bachelor's Degree and 60% in the subject English and qualified in written test and interview conducted by the University.
Note:
Candidates appearing for qualifying examination and awaiting results can also apply.
M.Sc. Chemistry:
Admission into M.Sc. Chemistry - 60% aggregate marks (above 6.5 CGPA) in any B.Sc. Degree with Chemistry as one of the subjects and qualified in written test and Interview conducted by the University.
Eligibility for Ph.D Program
Candidates with PG qualification in respective disciplines of Engineering/Technology/ Sciences/Humanities/Management.
Candidates with UG qualification in Engineering/Technology in respective discipline with a minimum of 60% or equivalent CGPA.
Candidates pursuing PG in Engineering/Technology at VFSTR or other reputed institutes, who have completed all the courses prescribed for the first 2 semesters with a minimum of 60% or equivalent CGPA. For such candidates, a faculty mentor is allocated to the candidate after he/she is given a provisional admission. Mentor could become a Research Supervisor for the Ph.D program after confirmation of Ph.D admission at VFSTR. The Master’s Project of the candidate must be in line with the proposed research topic for Ph.D and he/she needs to present a detailed comprehensive literature review to the Doctoral Committee within one year of provisional admission, however candidate is required to hold a Master’s degree in Engineering / Technology with a minimum of 60% or equivalent CGPA before being formally admitted into Ph.D program.
Explore More
Vignan’s Foundation for Science, Technology, and Research (Vignan) met the accreditation requirements of the International Accreditation Organization (IAO) and was granted full accreditation.
Learn More
Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research
(Deemed to
be University), Vadlamudi, Guntur-522213
info@vignan.ac.in
0863-2344700 / 701
Students
Pay Tution Fee
Examinations
Internship
Portal
Slam book
Student-ExitFeedback
Outlook (Access
Mail)
Anti-Ragging
Grievance Redressal
Student Portal
Apply Online
Refund Policy
Others
Blog
Essential Contacts
Vignan TBI
Voice of Vignan
MHRD-NMEICT
Feedback
VU Today
Vignan Brand Mall
Academic Collaborations
SEDC
SDG (Sustainable Development Goals)
IKS (Indian Knowledge System)
Equal opportunity cell
Facilities for differently-abled
UGC e-Samadhan portal
NCTE
Internal Portals
Accreditation
NAAC
DSIR
Certified
Copyrights © 2026 Vignan University. All rights reserved.
internal portals
Student
Internship Portal
Slam Book
Outlook ( Access Mails)
HEIs
DSIR Certified
OTHERS
SEDG
Blogs
MHRD- NMEICT
Copyrights © 2026 VFSTR. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
