SOURCE URL: https://vignan.ac.in/newvignan/newstudent.php

Welcome New Students – Vignan University | Learning Without Limits
Vignan University
విజ్ఞాన్ శాస్త్ర సాంకేతిక పరిశోధనా సంస్థ / विग्नान शास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और परिशोधन संगठन
Careers
Alumni
Admissions
Mandatory Disclosure
Quick links
International Students
Hyd (Off Campus)
Vignan Online
Webmail
Mandatory Disclosures
IQAC
FIIP
Industry Relations
Pay Tuition Fee
AR Complaint form
Contact Us
Home
Academics
Programs
Schools
Assessments
Academic Calendar
Policies & handbooks
Why choose us?
Regulations
Admission
Research
Project Funding Opportunities
Research Meetings
ODEC Meetings
People
Faculty
University
Life
About Us
HYD Campus
New Student
Convocation LIVE
Parent
DSIR Recognition
The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) is a part of the Ministry of Science and Technology, which was announced through a Presidential Notification, dated January 4, 1985 (74/2/1/8 Cab.) contained in the 164th Amendment of the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961.The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) has a mandate to carry out the activities relating to indigenous technology promotion, development, utilisation and transfer
DSIR has been decided to accord the recognition to Vignan’s foundation of Science & Research (Deemed to be University), Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh from 30 Aug 2018 to 31 Mar 2021.
View Document
NBA Recognition
View Document (2020-23)
View Document (2023-26)
View Document (2026-28)
REFUND/CANCELLATION POLICY
Fee refund norms against cancellation of admissions:
For cancellation of admission, the issue of refund of tuition fee to student shall be decided in the light of MHRD circular, UGC norms (UGC regulations 2016, 6.2) and University policy. The broad rules for refund of tution fee against cancellation of seat are:
Admission fee is non-refundable, once student is provisionally admitted.
Tuition fee paid will be refunded if the student cancel his /her admission before the commencement of class work.
Prior to closing of admissions and after commencement of class work, tuition fee is refundable with proportionate deduction of monthly fee.
Once admissions are closed, the entire fee collected shall be forfeited.
ARIIA
Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) is an initiative of Ministry of Education (MoE), Govt. of India to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities in India on indicators related to “Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development” amongst students and faculties. The first edition was launched in 2019.
The methodology designed to calculate ARIIA metrics considers all major parameters/ indicators used globally to rank education institutions for innovation output. Additionally, ARIIA also measures some parameters which are India specific considering the current scenario and status of higher education in India.
Vignan Institute’s departments like Bio-tech, Food, Agricultural and Engineering Technologies s are part of innovation and startup ecosystem of the institute.
ABET Recognition
The university has secured ABET Accreditation for Five of its programs: CSE, EEE, ECE, Mechanical Engineering and Biotechnology.
This prestigious American based Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) places Vignan's
University among the 12 exclusive institutions in India to attain this
rare distinction.
Graduates from ABET-accredited programs benefit from global recognition of their degrees, enhanced employability, and opportunities for high-profile careers
and advanced studies at leading organisations worldwide.
PRIVACY POLICY
The Privacy Policy governs the use of this website.
VFSTR University is committed to protect your privacy and works towards offering you a useful, safe online experience.
Your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given by VFSTR University, to any other institution for any reason whatsoever, without your consent.
VFSTR University reserves the right, in its discretion, to change or modify all or any part of this Agreement at any time, effective immediately upon notice published on the site. Your continued use of the website constitutes your binding acceptance of these terms and conditions, including any changes or modifications made by Vignan University as permitted above.
VFSTR University treats your personal information or your use of the service as private and confidential and does not check, edit or reveal it to any third party except where it believes in good faith, such action is necessary to comply with the applicable legal and regulatory processes or to protect and defend the rights of other users or to enforce the terms of service which are binding on all the users of the site.
Except where specifically agreed upon or necessary for operational or regulatory reasons VFSTR University will not send you any unsolicited information via e-mail. The user can nevertheless unsubscribe from receipt of such e-mails by following instructions therein.
VFSTR University may collect unnamed statistics, which do not personally identify you and reserves the right to perform statistical analyses of user behavior and characteristics in order to measure interest in and use of the various areas of the site.
The information contents provided on this site cannot be copied, modified, uploaded, downloaded, published or republished, transmitted or otherwise distributed for commercial purposes without prior and explicit permission from the concerned authorities.
Reproduction of any information or material provided on this website, with or without any modification, is prohibited unless, with prior permission of Vignan University and shall amount to violation of copyright and would be deemed an illegal act.
All matters of dispute shall be dealt under the jurisdiction of Calcutta High Court
Terms & Conditions
A Fresh Start
We welcome new students to this extraordinary chapter in their lives! As you embark on this thrilling academic journey, we warmly extend our greetings.
A Journey of Insights and Discoveries
Vignan hosts a comprehensive six-day orientation program for new students. The program includes goal-setting and orientation to Vignan's lifestyle, psychological counseling, comprehensive career training, civil service preparation, educational quality sessions by the Vice Chancellor, stress assessment and management, and discussions on society and nature.
Training for an Extra Edge
Campus Recruitment Training (CRT)
A 200-hour program that offers rigorous training and learning opportunities to students aspiring for campus placements. The program covers training on quantitative ability, verbal ability, reasoning skills, soft skills and mock interview sessions, conducted by both in- house and external experts.
Win-Win tie-ups with Industry
The university has MoUs with industry for curriculum development, collaborative R&D, as well as for training students and faculty members. We also have MoUs for student internships with VEDA IIT, Virchow, ZOHO, Hetero Biopharma Limited, Nova Agri Tech Limited, and KOREA TECH.
Vignan also collaborates with FACE, ITC etc., to provide better placements and internships in software and core areas. The university has been accredited by TCS.
Anti Ragging
According to the Indian Penal Code (IPC), ragging is a social ill and a crime. As such, students are not allowed to engage in any kind of ragging on or off campus. As a defender of high moral standards and values.
Read More
Grievance Redressal
A committee attends to both the academic and personal problems of the students, such as academic functioning, lab facilities, access to information, unfair evaluation in exams (if any), and any discrimination based on gender or social status.
Hostel Life of students
Your first year stay at the University will be packed with exciting possibilities. The on-campus hostels for boys and girls, will provide you a home away from home with every comfort and amenity. The campus hostel can accommodate 1300 boys and 1200 girls. Each hostel has an exclusive and dedicated team to take care of the students’ welfare. The hostel dispensary is manned by a doctor and a nurse, with facilities for first-aid and treatment of minor ailments. A 24X7 ambulance facility is available for emergencies.
Explore Hostel Facility
Good Food for Optimal Health.
Our meticulously maintained, expansive dining halls comfortably host up to 500 students, offering delicious and nutritious meals. At Vignan, we prioritize serving healthy meals that support your mind, body, and spirit, ensuring you reach your academic goals with vitality and longevity in mind.
View Article
Stimulating Ambience
The campus at Vignan’s University, with its lush greenery, offers an enchanting haven for those embarking on their academic journey amidst the vibrant environment of a multicultural campus.
View More
Sports Amenities
The campus features extensive outdoor sports facilities, including cricket, football, volleyball, tennis, basketball, and a 400-meter athletics track. Additionally, an indoor sports facility provides resources for indoor games such as table tennis and badminton.
Kabbadi
Athletics
Cricket
Explore All Amenities
Basketball
Major Events
MAHOTSAV
01 FEB 2024
AAVEGA
15 MAY 2023
KAIZIEN
13 MAY 2024
SRUJANANKURA
17 MAR 2023
Browse Departments
Computer Science Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Electronics & Communication Engineering
Civil Engineering
View All
View Departments
Library
A Treasure of learning resources
Vignan University provides you access to unparalleled resources and facilities. Regardless of your chosen field of study, we ensure that you have access to a wide variety of learning tools to realize your educational goals.
Institutional LMS
As a Vignan student, you gain access to our institutional LMS. This robust platform offers a wealth of digital content, including videos, PowerPoint presentations, assignments, quizzes, forums, Virtual Programming Labs (VPL), and much more. This would be your one-stop digital hub for engaging yourself with course materials and interacting with peers and faculty.
24 x 7 Internet - Access
Vignan takes pride in its affiliation with the National Mission on Education through ICT, MHRD. This distinction enables us to provide blazing-fast 1 Gbps internet connectivity that allows you access to e-journals and books via the National Knowledge Network (NKN) round the clock.
NTR Library
It is an artistically designed, elegantly furnished, fully air-conditioned facility with indoor greenery, modern furniture, and reprographic conveniences. Separate enclaves for individual and group study help students use the library for longer hours. Apart from books relevant to the curriculum, a rich collection of books and journals useful for general study and research activities is also accessible.
The NTR Vignan Library stocks more than 1,20,100 volumes, examination papers, and books for research, as well as plenty of audio and visual material, in addition to the 280 national-referenced journals. Also available are preparation materials for GRE, TOEFL, IELTS, GATE, etc.
Each department has its own library to serve as a quick reference centre. The department library holds around 400 books, journals, project reports, recorded lectures, etc. for advanced learning.
E-Learning
Vignan deploys cutting-edge education technologies, which is evident in the range of e-learning tools and platforms available for student use. You can access lecture notes, study materials, and engage in online discussions with your fellow students and tutors. You can enjoy the rich array of web-based resources, including text, video, audio, and images. Online tests and assignments pave the way for a continuous and comprehensive understanding of your subjects.
Explore More
upto
Scholarship on Tuition fee
Worth of Scholarships
Fee Details
Preference in the allotment of scholarship seats for candidates who qualify for V-SAT-26...
Fee with Respect to
KUNITA RAO
Student Council
The Student Activities Council (SAC) at Vignan’s University is a student-led organization committed to enriching the college journey for all students.
Sports Cell
The Sports and Games Cell of the institute is dedicated with a team comprising 9 Physical Directors (PDs), 9 Special Coaches, and 10 assistants.
The primary aim of the National Cadet Corps is to foster the development of character, camaraderie, and leadership skills among the youth of India.
UEAC
UEAC activities are aimed at instilling social consciousness and responsibility among budding engineers
Fleet of Buses
Around 46 buses connect the university to various locations, including Guntur, Tenali, Vijayawada, Repalle, Bapatla, Chirala, and Chilakaluripet, ensuring comfortable and affordable transportation for students at regular intervals.
High-Speed Internet
The campus offers 1Gbps internet, enabling students to access e-learning materials & resources for assignments, projects, and self-study.
Banking Facility
The ATM on campus provides 24/7 banking services to students, faculty, and staff, offering convenient access to cash withdrawals and other banking needs.
If you are day scholar then these are the bus routes
Vignan's University, is located along National Highway-5 and lies between Guntur and Tenali. It is 13 km from Guntur and 12 km from Tenali. It is well connected by road. Government buses are available on regular basis from different area?s of the city & local transportation is also easily accessible to reach to the university
Link for Bus Routes
Have a Query?
We are here to help
Contact us on Provided number
Vignan team is available in from Mon - Sat 9:00 am to 6:00 pm
Vignan’s Foundation for Science, Technology, and Research (Vignan) met the accreditation requirements of the International Accreditation Organization (IAO) and was granted full accreditation.
Learn More
Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research
(Deemed to
be University), Vadlamudi, Guntur-522213
info@vignan.ac.in
0863-2344700 / 701
Students
Pay Tution Fee
Examinations
Internship
Portal
Slam book
Student-ExitFeedback
Outlook (Access
Mail)
Anti-Ragging
Student Portal
Apply Online
Refund Policy
Others
Blog
Essential Contacts
Vignan TBI
Voice of Vignan
MHRD-NMEICT
Feedback
VU Today
Vignan Brand Mall
Academic Collaborations
SEDC
SDG (Sustainable Development Goals)
IKS (Indian Knowledge System)
Equal opportunity cell
Facilities for differently-abled
UGC e-Samadhan portal
NCTE
ITEP
Internal Portals
Accreditation
NAAC
DSIR
Certified
Copyrights © 2026 Vignan University. All rights reserved.
internal portals
Student
Internship Portal
Slam Book
Outlook ( Access Mails)
HEIs
DSIR Certified
OTHERS
SEDG
Blogs
MHRD- NMEICT
Copyrights © 2026 VFSTR. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Student Activities Council
In a student's life, education is not solely about academics, rhetorical studies, lectures and seminars but about learning many more important social and life skills like leadership skills, group dynamics etc., Which are considered to be highly essential elements for a student to transform into successful engineer. And Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research University truly believes in this fact. To ensure sharpening of minds and strengthening of souls, the students of Vignan have built their own student body: the Student Activities Council.
The Student Activities Council of 80 members is elected annually from among the nominees and selections done through a democratic process involving a panel of faculty members and student representatives drawn from across all departments. It has a President, Vice Presidents, General Secretaries, Member Secretaries and a Treasurer, supported by a sub-structure of various committees, who plan, organize and execute a plethora of Co and Extracurricular events and competitions on campus. The student activities council has emerged truly on the distinct determination and inseparable co-ordination of the students in working towards success. SAC is the leading student programming board on campus. Here in vignan, SAC aids in providing meaningful and enjoyable, social, cultural and educational programs and events that appeal and are accessible to the widest group of students possible, both on and off campus.
This student activities council ensures the students that their journey in this campus is not just filled with intellectual studies but with more involvement of passion, interests and creativity. SAC extends its roots to every student who wants to develop professionally, socially, contribute to a team and be inspiringly successful.
SAC is diversified just as students are, into various departments leading to more a tension free and peaceful work atmosphere. Starting from team logistics, stage management, technical controls through media and public relations ending in literary, cultural, fine arts is the departmenting of this council. Student activities council is established to be a platform with fostering leadership, managerial skills and group dynamics. This is a stage where people with vivid as well as similar mindsets meet, initiate, discuss, share, and present their ideas. This council also envisions in students being able to manage and maintain good relations, networking and adapt the culture of work streams. Following a typical framework and conventional functioning policies, the student activities council will be active on a daily basis to keep up the spirits of the inhabitants of the campus.
Thus ,the student activities council being the most happening student body, is gripped as the backbone for all student activities and has grown , is growing and will grow to be the most efficient, reliable , effective student body. VFSTR's student activities council works according to its motto that there are no secrets to success. It's the preparation, hard work and learning from failure."
Go to SAC
Planning and Execution of Institution clubs:
The best way to ever experience the vast spectrum of activities would be to join the various clubs .These clubs will help students to meet other enthusiasts and experts inthe fields and thus create the perfect learning environment, making the clubs a hugebank of collective knowledge which is passed from one batch to another.
There are 13 optional clubs categorized into four major groups such as cultural, Literary, fine arts and Innovators club which are overseen by the Student ActivitiesCouncil of the institution.
In addition to the conduction of club activities various events will be planned by the Student Activities council. On this regard an activity calendar of all the training activities organized under clubs and other activities will be interspersed by the Student Activities Council and it ensures their execution as per the schedule.
Click for Glimpses of Student Activities Organised by Student Council
Sports & Culturals
The institution provides rich scope and facilities for different clubs like literary, cultural, sports and fine arts. These clubs offer a platform for students to exhibit their innate and latent talents in the areas of their interest.For facilitating students to conduct and participate in the wide spectrum of recreational activities,the institution has well planned infrastructure.
Open-air Theatres:
Two spacious open-air theatres are available with a capacity of 1500 to 2000 students for the use of different co-curricular and extra curricular activities as well as to conduct mega events like Vignan Mahostav (A National Level Youth Festival).
Seminar Halls:
State of the art Seminar and Gallery halls in both the Visweswaraiah and Aryabhatta blocks give scope for conduction of Intra- Departmental literary, cultural events.
Sports Facilities:
The campus is equipped with facilities for all outdoor games like cricket, football, volleyball, tennis, basketball, and a 400-meter track athletics. An Indoor Sports Complex offers provision for indoor games like table tennis, badminton etc.
To keep the students motivated,the physical educational department under the supervision of a well qualified Physical Director conducts intramurals round the year for keeping the sports persons well practiced and ready to participate whenever, there is a state level or national level event.
Sports Facilities
Out door Games
Athletics Track (400mts) - 1
Volley Ball Courts - 9
Lawn Tennis - 2 (Clay courts)
Indoor Games
Table Tennis Boards - 2
Carroms and Chess
Girls Play Arena
Ball Badminton - 2
Foot Ball Field - 1
Basket Ball Court - 2
Tennicoit - 7
Throw Ball - 3
National Cadet Corps
Objective:
The objective of National Cadet Corps is to develop character, comradeship, and capacity for leadership among youth in India.
The VFSTR NCC Company motivates the students with best training and the ideals of selfless service.
The training inculcates team spirit, a sense of nationalism and it also helps in developing the overall personality of an individual and thus enabling them to become a responsible citizen of this nation.
Go to NCC
Formation:
The VFSTR NCC 138-B Sub Unit (Senior Division and Senior Wing) under the control of 25(Andhra) BATTALION NCC, GUNTUR - GROUP was started in 2009.
The VFSTR NCC 65-G Sub Unit (Senior Wing) under the control of 10(Andhra) GIRLS BATTALION NCC, GUNTUR - GROUP was started in 2011.
Contact:
138-B, 25(A) BN NCC:
Lt Siva Koteswararao Chinnam
Associate NCC Officer
138-B, 25(A) BN NCC, Guntur
vfstrncc@gmail.com
65-G(A), 10(A) Girls BN NCC:
Lt Keerthi Priya Yadala
65-G(A), 10(A) Girls BN NCC, Guntur
keerthi.kavi111@gmail.com
University Extension Activity Council
The UEAC Unit of VFSTR was established in the year 2009, (continued erstwhile Vignan's Engineering College NSS unit under new name) to motivate students towards community oriented service.
These activities are aimed at instilling social consciousness and responsibility among budding engineers.
These activities also enable the VFSTR to forge strong links with community and help in its development through various extension activities.
It also encourages the involvement of the community in the college growth and development.
A SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENT
The UEAC unit has received a Silver Medal through Indian Red Cross Society announced by Honorable Governor of Andhra Pradesh in the year 2016.
It's not a single day effort, it is the continuous process from the last 6 years by organizing various Blood donation camps, Tree plantations, Special camps, old age home visits, orphan home visits, raise the fund to Armed forces &flood effected people in the villages of Pedalanka & Pesarlanka, AIDS day, Voters day, Water day, Rallies, Camps in the adopted schools like Eye checkup, Dental Checkup, Health Checkup, Academic classes and providing Infrastructure support & Hygienic food for X class students at the time of their examinations.
Transport
The University has a fleet of 40 buses, operating along three routes of Guntur, Vijayawada, Mangalagiri / Bypass Mangalagiri / Bypass, Kaja, Revendrapadu, Dugirala Main Road, Tenali, Chilakaluripeta, Bapatla, Ponnur, Battiprolu, Cherukupalli, Repalle, Vellaturu, Donepudi, Kolluru, Vemuru, Jampani, Pedaravuru, Amaravathi, 14th Mile Stone and Tadikonda 'x' Road with a total seating capacity of 2500 students. Besides providing the bus service,the institute maintains a pool of ten cars for meeting the transport requirements of the senior faculty. An emergency vehicle is available round the clock.
Bus Route Map and Fee Details
Click for Bus Route Map and Fee Details
Scholarship
Scholarships galore!
Fee Structure and Reservation Criteria
Money is a concern for all students.
There is a tuition fee to be paid and living expenses to be covered. A little research into how much money you will need to cover your living expenses and the scholarships available can help you enormously in managing your finances.
Preference in the allotment of scholarship seats for candidates who qualify for V-SAT’25.
25% of the total seats in each programme are reserved for scholarships. Out of that, 5% seats are allotted with a 75% scholarship, 10% seats are allotted with a 50% scholarship, and 10% seats have a 25% scholarship. (For example, out of 60 seats, the distribution will be: 3 seats with 75% scholarship, 6 seats with 50% scholarship, and 6 seats with 25% scholarship.)
Scholarship seats are allotted in all programmes on the basis of merit, availability of seats, and on a first-come, first-served basis.
The scholarship is applicable for four years of study, subject to the maintenance of a minimum 7.0 CGPA in the preceding year(s) without any backlogs.
The rank in JEE (Mains/Advanced) should be All India Marks / Ranks in their respective categories.
