SOURCE URL: https://vignan.ac.in/ug.php

Vignan University
About Us
Overview
Chancellor
Vice-Chancellor
Apex Bodies
Registrar
Finance Officer
Deans
School Deans
Institutional Committees
UG Admissions
B.Tech / B.Pharmacy
B.Sc(Hons) Agriculture
B.Sc PGBT BioTechnoogy
Lateral Entry
BBA / BCA
B.Sc
BBA.LL.B / BA.LL.B
PG & Ph.D Admissions
M.Tech.
M.A. English
M.Sc. Chemistry
Ph.D
International Admissions
Admission Procedure
Rules & Regulations
Application Form
Scholarships-African Countries
Visa
Contact Details
Departments
Advanced Computer Science and Engineering
Agri. & Horti. Sciences
Agriculture Engineering
Biotechnology
Biomedical Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering
Department of Chemistry
Department of Physics
Department of Mathematics
Department of English & Other Indian and Foreign Languages
Electronics and Communication Engineering
Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Food Technology
Information Technology
Institute of Law
Mechanical Engineering
Management Studies
Pharmaceutical Sciences
Robotic & Automation Engineering
Sciences & Humanities
Textile Technology
Distance & online Education
Civil Services
Current Students
Examinations
Policies & Hand Books
Regulations
Scholarships
Essential Contacts
Student Council
University Life
Library
Alumni
Stay Connected
Contact Us
Contact
विज्ञान शास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और परिशोधन संगठन
విజ్ఞాన శాస్త్ర సాంకేతిక పరిశోధనా సంస్థ
Home
About us
Vision
To evolve into a centre of excellence in Science & Technology through creative and innovative practices in teaching - learning, towards promoting academic achievement and research excellence to produce internationally accepted, competitive and world class professionals who are psychologically strong & emotionally balanced imbued with social consciousness & ethical values.
Mission
To provide high quality academic programmes, training activities, research facilities and opportunities supported by continuous industry - institute interaction aimed at promoting employability, entrepreneurship, leadership and research aptitude among students and contribute to the economic and technological development of the region, state and nation.
Awards and Accolades
Organizational Structure
Annual Reports
Admissions
UG Programmes
Electronics & Communication Engineering
ACSE
AIML
CSBS
Data Science
Electrical & Electronics Engineering
B.Pharmacy
Robotics & Automation Engineering
B.Sc(Hons)Agriculture
B.Sc (Computers)
BBA.LL.B
BA.LL.B
Diploma : ECE
Apply Now
Fee Structure & Scholarships
PG Programmes
Embedded Systems
VLSI Design
Computer Science & Engineering
Power Electronics & drives
Food Processing Technology
Machine Design
Farm Machinery
Structural Engineering
M.A(Eng)
M.Sc(Chem)
Ph.D Programmes
Apply for Ph.D
International Admission
Research
Department of Sciences & Humanities
Academics
Academic Calendars
UEAC (NSS)
Sports Contingent
Ambience
Sports & Culturals
General Facilities
Infrastructure
Library Services
Library Automation
Online Resources
Contact us
Hyderabad Off Campus
VSAT 2026
B.Tech/B.Pharmacy/B.Sc(Hons) Agriculture
A comprehensive plan, meticulously executed with periodical assessments backed by continuous counselling and feedback is enabling Vignan students to turn out into highly competitive and skilled professionals. VFSTR is proud to see them turning out into psychologically strong, emotionally balanced professionals imbued with social consciousness and ethical values. Our graduates will benefit from an education that nurtures fundamental capabilities along with deep disciplinary knowledge.
The four years B.Pharm course generally deals with the study for proper manufacture as well as preservation of drugs and other pharmaceuticals. A B.Pharm graduate will possess the conceptual knowledge that is needed to test the medicines. Many career opportunities are available for professionals in this field like Drug Inspectors, Drug regulatory managers, Quality assurance managers, Research officers, Health inspectors etc. In addition graduates can find jobs in Biotech, Pharma industries and Health care institutions.
India is a leading global leader in agriculture and a major part of the Indian economy is driven by agriculture. Over 52% of the rural households depend on agriculture for their employment. India is one of the largest producers of vegetables, fruits and flowers in the world. Also, India is the largest producer of milk, second largest of sugar, leading producer of coconut and spices. India is one of the largest exporters of agricultural commodities such as spices, flowers, mushrooms, oilseeds, milk, rice, food grains and other vegetables. Society needs food, and hence, agriculture will always be a lucrative career option. Indian government is also backing up the agriculture sector. Foreign investors are also showing great interest in the Indian agricultural industry. There is an urgent need to develop highly qualified and trained human resources in Agricultural and Horticultural Sciences. Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research (Deemed to be University) with its multi-dimensional mission and focus on education, research, extension and outreach, is to offer a four year B.Sc. (Hons.) Agriculture course from the Academic Year 2021-22.
Good academic environment and special schemes in the form of academic scholarships are also in place to attract meritorious students. To encourage meritorious students scholarship worth Rs.400 lakhs is awarded to each admitted batch.
V-SAT Admission Test :
Vignan's Scholastic Aptitude Test (V-SAT) is a computer based online test conducted on an all India basis for admission into B.Tech./B.Sc(Hons) Agriculture/B. Pharmacy in Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology & Research (Deemed to be University), Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, India.
Admission Notification 2024-25
V-SAT'24 Merit Scholarships & Information
V-SAT Sample Question Paper - M.P.C
V-SAT Sample Question Paper - Bi.P.C
Availability of V-SAT'24 Applications
AP & Telangana Contact Details
Kerala Contact Details
V-SAT Sample Application Form & Instruction Guide
V-SAT Syllabus
V-SAT Syllabus - Maths A
V-SAT Syllabus - Maths B
V-SAT Syllabus - Physics
V-SAT Syllabus - Chemistry
V-SAT Syllabus - Botany
V-SAT Syllabus - Zoology
Trending Course - B.Sc(Hons)Agriculture
Trending Course - BA. LLB, BBA. LLB
Trending Course - AIML
Trending Course - Civil Services Training
B.Tech./B.Sc(Hons) Agriculture/B. Pharmacy Programmes Offered
CSE - Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (2020-21 onwards)
Electronics and Communications Engg.
Robotics and Automation Engineering (2020-21 onwards)
Bioinformatics
Computer science and Engineering
CSE - Cyber Security (2020-21 onwards)
CSE - Computer Science and Business Systems (2020-21 onwards)
Eligibility criteria for admission into B.Tech./B.Sc(Hons) Agriculture/B. Pharmacy Programmes
Candidates born on or after 1st July, 2005 and a pass in Intermediate or its equivalent with minimum 60% aggregate marks are eligible to appear for the admission test.
Admission to B.Tech./B.Sc(Hons) Agriculture/B. Pharmacy programmes will be through Vignan's Scholastic Aptitude Test, V-SAT an on-line test, conducted by Vignan's Deemed to be University on all India basis.
2 years Agriculture diploma holders are also eligible for admission into B.Sc (Hons) Agriculture.
Candidates qualified in AP or TS EAMCET / JEE(Mains) / JEE(Advanced) with a minimum 60% aggregate marks in the
+2 / Intermediate examinations are also eligible for admission.
Streams for V-SAT 2024 (for M.P.C Students):
Candidates who attempt Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and English/Aptitude in the V-SAT 2024 are eligible for all the B.Tech., B.Sc(Hons) Agriculture, and B.Pharmacy programmes.
Streams for V-SAT 2024 (for Bi.P.C Students):
Candidates who attempt Physics, Chemistry, Biology and English/Aptitude in the V-SAT 2024 are eligible for B.Tech. Biotechnology,B.Sc(Hons) Agriculture, Bioinformatics, Biomedical Engineering, Food Technology and B.Pharmacy Programmes.
Note:
Candidates appearing for qualifying examination and awaiting results can also apply.
Procedure for Admission into B.Tech./B.Sc(Hons) Agriculture/B. Pharmacy Programmes
The admission will be on the basis of the performance in the V-SAT /EAMCET/JEE-2024.
The merit position of the candidate for admission will be based on the RANK obtained in V-SAT /EAMCET/JEE-2024, provided if he/she gets minimum 60% aggregate marks in the +2 / Intermediate examination as per the eligibility criteria. Admissions will be purely on merit and by following the reservation policy applicable to Vignan's University.
A common merit list will be prepared based on the performance in the entrance test and they will be called for the counseling to be held at the Vignan's University premises at Vadlamudi, Guntur District, A.P. through common ranking.
It is the responsibility of the candidates to ascertain whether they possess the requisite qualification for admission. Hav- ing been appeared for the competitive examination or called for counseling does not necessarily mean acceptance of the eligibility for admission.
The admission offered to a candidate who has been provisionally admitted to a programme will stand cancelled if he/she does not submit the relevant documents in original pertaining to admission (such as marks statements, rank card, transfer certifi- cate, conduct certificate etc.) to the Dean-Admissions before the date stipulated in the admission offer.
Admissions to various programmes will, however, be subject to verification of facts from the original certificates/documents of the candidates. In case any discrepancy is noticed even at a later point of time after admission, the management reserves the right to cancel the admission and such a decision shall be final and binding on the candidate.
Application Procedure
Apply through Online
Click here to fill online V-SAT Application
Apply through DD
Download V-SAT application form.
The filled application along with the DD for Rs. 1200/- drawn in favour of VFSTR Application Account, payable at Guntur should be sent to the following address so as to reach before the last date specified. Candidates should write their name and address on the reverse of DD.
Postal Address
Dean-Admissions
Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology & Research (Deemed to be University)
Vadlamudi, Guntur - 522 213 (A.P)- India
Ph : +91 863 - 2344777 / 78
Toll free No. 1800-425-2529
Candidates can obtain application on payment of Rs. 1200/- in person from Indian Banks - AP & Telangana or Vignan Schools or Colleges at Guntur, Hyderabad, Eluru, Rajahmundry, Visakhapatnam, Ongole and Vignan offices at Vijayawada, Guntur & Hyderabad.
Click here for detailed list of availability of Applications
Right place for creative minds...
Welcome to a place with 45-year legacy of Academic Excellence. As you explore, you begin to find yourself in a well diversed and intellectually intriguing atmosphere
Explore Vignan
Quick Links
VU Moodle
Slambook
Grievance Redressal
NAD-ABC
NAAC
ARIIA
NIRF
IQAC
Anti Ragging
Holistic Training
Ph.D brouchure 2023
vignan brochure 2024
Vignan Online Education
vignan north brochure 2024
International brochure 2024
Statutory Approvals
National Scholarship Portal
Institutional Development
Plan
Reservation Roster
Important Links
MHRD-NMEICT Initiative
Feedback / Survey
Student-Exitfeedback
VU Today
e-Bulletin of APSCHE
117.192.192.131
Student Portal
Feedback on Website
Tuition Fee Payment
AICTE Internship Portal
VFSTR Mail
Deo Portal
Privacy Policy
Refund Policy
Blog
Faculty Profiles
Get In Touch
Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research (Deemed to be University), Vadlamudi, Guntur-522213
Phone:
0863-2344700
/ 701
Email:
info@vignan.ac.in
Copyrights © 2023 Vignan University. All rights reserved.
UG (B.Tech) Courses
CSE - AIML
CSE - CS
CSE - CSBS
PG (M.Tech) Courses
Professional PG Courses
Other UG Courses
BA. LL. B
BBA. LL. B
Vignan offers Ph.D. programmes in Engineering, Science, Management and English Streams.
Hello...
Don't have an account? Create your account. It's take less then a minutes
Login with social media
Facebook
Google+
Twitter
Create an Account
User name
Email id
Password
Confirm password
Are you a already member ? Login
Forgot password
User name or email id
Create a new account
