SOURCE URL: https://vignan.ac.in/newvignan/grievance.php

Grievance Redressal – Vignan University | Raise and Resolve Complaints
Vignan University
విజ్ఞాన్ శాస్త్ర సాంకేతిక పరిశోధనా సంస్థ / विग्नान शास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और परिशोधन संगठन
Careers
Alumni
Admissions
Mandatory Disclosure
Quick links
International Students
Hyd (Off Campus)
Vignan Online
Webmail
Mandatory Disclosures
IQAC
FIIP
Industry Relations
Pay Tuition Fee
AR Complaint form
Contact Us
Home
Academics
Programs
Schools
Assessments
Academic Calendar
Policies & handbooks
Why choose us?
Regulations
Admission
Research
Project Funding Opportunities
Research Meetings
ODEC Meetings
People
Faculty
University
Life
About Us
HYD Campus
New Student
Convocation LIVE
Parent
DSIR Recognition
The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) is a part of the Ministry of Science and Technology, which was announced through a Presidential Notification, dated January 4, 1985 (74/2/1/8 Cab.) contained in the 164th Amendment of the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961.The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) has a mandate to carry out the activities relating to indigenous technology promotion, development, utilisation and transfer
DSIR has been decided to accord the recognition to Vignan’s foundation of Science & Research (Deemed to be University), Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh from 30 Aug 2018 to 31 Mar 2021.
View Document
NBA Recognition
View Document (2020-23)
View Document (2023-26)
View Document (2026-28)
REFUND/CANCELLATION POLICY
Fee refund norms against cancellation of admissions:
For cancellation of admission, the issue of refund of tuition fee to student shall be decided in the light of MHRD circular, UGC norms (UGC regulations 2016, 6.2) and University policy. The broad rules for refund of tution fee against cancellation of seat are:
Admission fee is non-refundable, once student is provisionally admitted.
Tuition fee paid will be refunded if the student cancel his /her admission before the commencement of class work.
Prior to closing of admissions and after commencement of class work, tuition fee is refundable with proportionate deduction of monthly fee.
Once admissions are closed, the entire fee collected shall be forfeited.
ARIIA
Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) is an initiative of Ministry of Education (MoE), Govt. of India to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities in India on indicators related to “Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development” amongst students and faculties. The first edition was launched in 2019.
The methodology designed to calculate ARIIA metrics considers all major parameters/ indicators used globally to rank education institutions for innovation output. Additionally, ARIIA also measures some parameters which are India specific considering the current scenario and status of higher education in India.
Vignan Institute’s departments like Bio-tech, Food, Agricultural and Engineering Technologies s are part of innovation and startup ecosystem of the institute.
ABET Recognition
The university has secured ABET Accreditation for Five of its programs: CSE, EEE, ECE, Mechanical Engineering and Biotechnology.
This prestigious American based Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) places Vignan's
University among the 12 exclusive institutions in India to attain this
rare distinction.
Graduates from ABET-accredited programs benefit from global recognition of their degrees, enhanced employability, and opportunities for high-profile careers
and advanced studies at leading organisations worldwide.
PRIVACY POLICY
The Privacy Policy governs the use of this website.
VFSTR University is committed to protect your privacy and works towards offering you a useful, safe online experience.
Your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given by VFSTR University, to any other institution for any reason whatsoever, without your consent.
VFSTR University reserves the right, in its discretion, to change or modify all or any part of this Agreement at any time, effective immediately upon notice published on the site. Your continued use of the website constitutes your binding acceptance of these terms and conditions, including any changes or modifications made by Vignan University as permitted above.
VFSTR University treats your personal information or your use of the service as private and confidential and does not check, edit or reveal it to any third party except where it believes in good faith, such action is necessary to comply with the applicable legal and regulatory processes or to protect and defend the rights of other users or to enforce the terms of service which are binding on all the users of the site.
Except where specifically agreed upon or necessary for operational or regulatory reasons VFSTR University will not send you any unsolicited information via e-mail. The user can nevertheless unsubscribe from receipt of such e-mails by following instructions therein.
VFSTR University may collect unnamed statistics, which do not personally identify you and reserves the right to perform statistical analyses of user behavior and characteristics in order to measure interest in and use of the various areas of the site.
The information contents provided on this site cannot be copied, modified, uploaded, downloaded, published or republished, transmitted or otherwise distributed for commercial purposes without prior and explicit permission from the concerned authorities.
Reproduction of any information or material provided on this website, with or without any modification, is prohibited unless, with prior permission of Vignan University and shall amount to violation of copyright and would be deemed an illegal act.
All matters of dispute shall be dealt under the jurisdiction of Calcutta High Court
Terms & Conditions
Grievance Registration Forms
1. Student Grievance Registration
Register No
Captcha
Enter Captcha
Proceed
Next
Submit
2. Parent Grievance Registration
Parent Name
Ward Register No
3. Staff Grievance Registration
Emp Name
Emp Code
Mob Number
4. SC/ST/OBC Staff Grievance Registration
5. SC/ST/OBC Student Grievance Registration
6. Grievance Status
Enter Grievance ID
Check Status
Vignan’s Foundation for Science, Technology, and Research (Vignan) met the accreditation requirements of the International Accreditation Organization (IAO) and was granted full accreditation.
Learn More
Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research
(Deemed to
be University), Vadlamudi, Guntur-522213
info@vignan.ac.in
0863-2344700 / 701
Students
Pay Tution Fee
Examinations
Internship
Portal
Slam book
Student-ExitFeedback
Outlook (Access
Mail)
Anti-Ragging
Grievance Redressal
Student Portal
Apply Online
Refund Policy
Others
Blog
Essential Contacts
Vignan TBI
Voice of Vignan
MHRD-NMEICT
Feedback
VU Today
Vignan Brand Mall
Academic Collaborations
SEDC
SDG (Sustainable Development Goals)
IKS (Indian Knowledge System)
Equal opportunity cell
Facilities for differently-abled
UGC e-Samadhan portal
NCTE
ITEP
Internal Portals
Accreditation
NAAC
DSIR
Certified
Copyrights © 2026 Vignan University. All rights reserved.
internal portals
Student
Internship Portal
Slam Book
Outlook ( Access Mails)
HEIs
DSIR Certified
OTHERS
SEDG
Blogs
MHRD- NMEICT
Copyrights © 2026 VFSTR. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Grievance Details
Register No:
Name:
Mobile:
Grievance Id:
Date of grievance registration:
Description:
Status:
Date of grievance resolution:
Resolution:
Online Grievance Redressal
Vignan's Foundation for Science Technology and Research has constituted Grievance Redressal cell, Anti Ragging Committee and Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) for the redressal of students' grievances related to academic and non academic matters, such as assessment, victimisation, attendance, conducting of examinations, ragging and harassment by colleague students or teachers etc.
Institute follows various protocols & procedures to resolve student grievances within 3 working days.
First step student with grievance can take if to consult counsellor or HoD of their department. Most of the times issues are taken care at this stage it self. If not student can register their grievances by three modes namely,
They can write grievance to Counsellor / HOD
They can put a application form in Drop box located outside of HoD cabin
They register online though institute website
The grievances that are received through these three modes are classified & analysed based on seriousness. If it is not a serious issue then counsellor/HOD communicates with student & takes care if it. But if they think that the grievance is a serious one then they call for a meeting of redressal committee with the members and initiate suitable action.
In either case grievances are resolved in 3 working days
Grievance Redressal Policy Document
Students Grievance Redressal Cell
The function of the Cell is to look into the grievances lodged by any student, and judge its merit, and take appropriate actions for redressal. Anyone with a grievance may approach any member of the grievance redressal cell, or any faculty member of the department. The complaint can be in writing, or oral.
Functions
a) Provide platform to express their complaints / grievances freely and frankly.
b) Make the students to respect the right and dignity of one another and show utmost restraint and patience whenever any occasion of rift arises.
c) Enable students to participate in the Student Redressal Grievance Cell as members.
d) Recommend the actions to be taken for redressal of the Grievance.
e) Recommend the actions to be taken for non-recurrence of the similar grievances in future.
Facilities
Required infrastructure and network facilities will be provided for the smooth functioning of the cell.
Committee Composition
The following is the composition of Student Grievance and Redressal cell.
a) Dean Student Affairs as Chair person.
b) 2/3 senior faculty members of major departments as a member.
c) 1 student from each department as a student member.
d) Associate Dean Engineering & Management as Convener.
Roles and responsibilities of members.
Chairperson
1. He / She heads the meeting and presides the meeting.
2. Appoints the committee for solving grievances.
3. Takes part in the case investigation and finalises the judgments per the Management policy.
Faculty Member
1. Takes part in making of year planner and events to be organised for every academic year.
2. Conduct awareness camps about grievance and redressal cell functionalities among students.
3. If requires, provides the counselling to the students who are being identified with behavioural problems.
4. Studies the suggestions received from suggestion box through convener and report to chairman of the cell.
Student Member
1. Student member of the cell creates awareness about the cell functionalities among the students' community.
2. Interacts with the concerned student community to know the ground reality of the case and reports the same to chairman of the cell.
Convener
1. He receives the SMS immediately upon the complaints registered through web portal and reports the same to chairperson.
2. Opens the suggestion box for every month and suggestions will be brought to the notice of faculty member.
3. Organises the meeting and provides intimation to the members of committee and students who registered complaints about case investigation.
4. Convener of the cell works on the actions given by chairperson.
5. Makes the feedback form, collects the feedback at the end of event, analyses it and makes a report.
Anti-Ragging Committee
Ragging is a social menace which has no place in Academic environment of the University and concerted efforts required to be in place to prevent its occurrence at any point of time. The Policy of the Institute is to make the campus fully “Anti-ragging campus” in line with UGC/AICTE guidelines.
Read More About Anti Ragging Committee
To uphold and comply with the directions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court and be vigilant on any acts amounting to ragging.
• To publicize to all students' prevalent directives and the actions that can be taken against those indulging in ragging.
• To consider the complaints received from the students and conduct enquiry and submit report along with recommendation on punishment for the offenders.
• Oversee the procedure of obtaining undertaking from the students in accordance with the provisions.
• Conduct workshops against ragging menace and orient the students.
• To provide students the information pertaining to contact address and telephone numbers of the person(s) identified to receive complaints/distress calls.
• To offer services of counselling and create awareness to the students.
• To take all necessary measures for prevention of Ragging inside the Campus/ Hostels.
The following is the composition of Anti Ragging Committee
a) One Senior Faculty appointed by Vice Chancellor as a Chairman
b) Dean Student Affairs, all Heads of the departments and Chief Wardens as members.
c) 5/6 students as core committee member
d) Student representatives from each department.
Procedure for handling issues
The information on ragging can be received in the following manner:
• Through the notified contact details of the Committee members
• Through national help-line number of UGC on ragging for necessary relief.
• Through any other member of the Institute. • From any external source
Follow up actions on complaints
In the event of receipt of information of ragging by any of the officers mentioned at (i) above, he/she will promptly alert/inform the Chairman of the Anti-Ragging Committee of the Institute or any of its members. The activity shall be completed, at the most, within two hours of receipt of this information.
• The Anti-Ragging Committee of the Institute shall promptly conduct a preliminary on the spot enquiry and collect prima facie details of the incident as available. The preliminary investigation/details of the incident shall be immediately brought to the notice of the Chairman of the Committee. The activity shall be completed, at the most, within twenty-four hours of receipt of information.
• The Anti-Ragging Committee of the Institute shall promptly conduct enquiry into the incidents.
• The Anti-Ragging Committee of the Institute shall complete the enquiry and submit its report along with recommendations to the Chairman of the Anti Ragging Committee of the Institute within fifteen days of the incident.
• Thereafter, the said report and recommendations shall be considered by the Anti- Ragging Committee for recommending the punishment on the erring students.
Empowering Anti-Ragging Committee
by the University
The Institute will constitute, empower and support the work of Anti-ragging committee in all respects.
Initiatives to prevent the menace of ragging
Anti-ragging committee members are encouraged to attend meetings/ seminars on Anti ragging to keep abreast of recent issues and solutions.
• Posters on Anti ragging received from UGC put up on prominent places in the institute.
• Conduct competitions like essay/slogan writing, posters and paintings etc. on menace of ragging to create awareness among students on the issues and derive solutions from the student quarter.
• Organizing rallies within and outside the campus as an awareness generation measure.
Internal Complaints Committee (ICC)
In compliance with the instructions of National Commission for women, Vignans Foundation for Science Technology and Research has established Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) to prevent sexual harassment of girl students and women, and to create harmonious environment for the benefit of women. A senior woman Professor of the institution is the Chairperson of the ICC
Read More About ICC
Objectives
The primary objective of the Internal Complaint Committee of VFSTR is to Prevent Sexual Harassment of Women and girl students at the workplace. The detailed objectives are given below
• To develop a policy against sexual harassment of women and girl students at the Institute.
• To evolve a permanent mechanism for the prevention and redressal of sexual harassment cases and other acts of gender based violence at the Institute.
• To ensure the implementation of the policy in letter and spirit through proper reporting of the complaints and their follow-up procedures.
• To uphold the commitment of the Institute to provide an environment free of gender based discrimination
• To create a secure physical and social environment to deter any act of sexual harassment.
• To promote a social and psychological environment to raise awareness on sexual harassment in its various forms
The ICC's twin functions are
a. To hear and address complaints regarding sexual harassment at VFSTR
b. To spread awareness about gender-related issues and functioning of the ICC.
Composition
The cell consists of one senior professor as the chairperson, three other members and one student representative
• ICC members should create confidence among women employees and girl students, and be accessible to them.
• ICC should not consider the socio-economic profile as well as position of individuals in the organisation, while dealing the complaints.
• All ICC members should be objective in dealing and investigating the complaints
Procedure for Filing Complaints
and Initiating Inquiry
An aggrieved woman or female student may complain against a male student /employee /faculty /administrative staff / research staff / to any of the members of the ICC.
• All complaints must be in writing.
• After receiving the complaint, Chairperson convenes the meeting of ICC and constitutes the enquiry committee if prima facie case exists.
• The Committee is required to complete the inquiry within a time period of 90 days from the date of receiving the complaint.
• On completion of the inquiry, the report will be submitted to the Vice-Chancellor with recommendations.
