SOURCE URL: https://vignan.ac.in/newvignan/whychooseus.php

Why Choose Vignan University? | Top Engineering College with High Placements & Research
Vignan University
విజ్ఞాన్ శాస్త్ర సాంకేతిక పరిశోధనా సంస్థ / विग्नान शास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और परिशोधन संगठन
Careers
Alumni
Admissions
Mandatory Disclosure
Quick links
International Students
Hyd (Off Campus)
Vignan Online
Webmail
Mandatory Disclosures
IQAC
FIIP
Industry Relations
Pay Tuition Fee
AR Complaint form
Contact Us
Home
Academics
Programs
Schools
Assessments
Academic Calendar
Policies & handbooks
Why choose us?
Regulations
Admission
Research
Project Funding Opportunities
Research Meetings
ODEC Meetings
People
Faculty
University
Life
About Us
HYD Campus
New Student
Convocation LIVE
Parent
DSIR Recognition
The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) is a part of the Ministry of Science and Technology, which was announced through a Presidential Notification, dated January 4, 1985 (74/2/1/8 Cab.) contained in the 164th Amendment of the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961.The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) has a mandate to carry out the activities relating to indigenous technology promotion, development, utilisation and transfer
DSIR has been decided to accord the recognition to Vignan’s foundation of Science & Research (Deemed to be University), Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh from 30 Aug 2018 to 31 Mar 2021.
View Document
NBA Recognition
View Document (2020-23)
View Document (2023-26)
View Document (2026-28)
REFUND/CANCELLATION POLICY
Fee refund norms against cancellation of admissions:
For cancellation of admission, the issue of refund of tuition fee to student shall be decided in the light of MHRD circular, UGC norms (UGC regulations 2016, 6.2) and University policy. The broad rules for refund of tution fee against cancellation of seat are:
Admission fee is non-refundable, once student is provisionally admitted.
Tuition fee paid will be refunded if the student cancel his /her admission before the commencement of class work.
Prior to closing of admissions and after commencement of class work, tuition fee is refundable with proportionate deduction of monthly fee.
Once admissions are closed, the entire fee collected shall be forfeited.
ARIIA
Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) is an initiative of Ministry of Education (MoE), Govt. of India to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities in India on indicators related to “Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development” amongst students and faculties. The first edition was launched in 2019.
The methodology designed to calculate ARIIA metrics considers all major parameters/ indicators used globally to rank education institutions for innovation output. Additionally, ARIIA also measures some parameters which are India specific considering the current scenario and status of higher education in India.
Vignan Institute’s departments like Bio-tech, Food, Agricultural and Engineering Technologies s are part of innovation and startup ecosystem of the institute.
ABET Recognition
The university has secured ABET Accreditation for Five of its programs: CSE, EEE, ECE, Mechanical Engineering and Biotechnology.
This prestigious American based Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) places Vignan's
University among the 12 exclusive institutions in India to attain this
rare distinction.
Graduates from ABET-accredited programs benefit from global recognition of their degrees, enhanced employability, and opportunities for high-profile careers
and advanced studies at leading organisations worldwide.
PRIVACY POLICY
The Privacy Policy governs the use of this website.
VFSTR University is committed to protect your privacy and works towards offering you a useful, safe online experience.
Your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given by VFSTR University, to any other institution for any reason whatsoever, without your consent.
VFSTR University reserves the right, in its discretion, to change or modify all or any part of this Agreement at any time, effective immediately upon notice published on the site. Your continued use of the website constitutes your binding acceptance of these terms and conditions, including any changes or modifications made by Vignan University as permitted above.
VFSTR University treats your personal information or your use of the service as private and confidential and does not check, edit or reveal it to any third party except where it believes in good faith, such action is necessary to comply with the applicable legal and regulatory processes or to protect and defend the rights of other users or to enforce the terms of service which are binding on all the users of the site.
Except where specifically agreed upon or necessary for operational or regulatory reasons VFSTR University will not send you any unsolicited information via e-mail. The user can nevertheless unsubscribe from receipt of such e-mails by following instructions therein.
VFSTR University may collect unnamed statistics, which do not personally identify you and reserves the right to perform statistical analyses of user behavior and characteristics in order to measure interest in and use of the various areas of the site.
The information contents provided on this site cannot be copied, modified, uploaded, downloaded, published or republished, transmitted or otherwise distributed for commercial purposes without prior and explicit permission from the concerned authorities.
Reproduction of any information or material provided on this website, with or without any modification, is prohibited unless, with prior permission of Vignan University and shall amount to violation of copyright and would be deemed an illegal act.
All matters of dispute shall be dealt under the jurisdiction of Calcutta High Court
Terms & Conditions
Why Choose Us?
Vignan’s Deemed to be University provides a
stimulating ambience in pursuit of higher studies
in a multi-cultural campus environment.
Apply now
Invigorating Environment.
Stimulating Ambience
It is an established fact that human behaviour is influenced by the surroundings.
The serene atmosphere of a temple has an elevating effect on all of us.
Guided by this fact, meticulous care has been taken in the design of the University campus.
Strategic Location
Located along the Guntur-Tenali highway, just 35 kms from Vijayawada, the institution is well connected to all the three towns through public transport.
It is also well connected by rail and air.
The biggest railway Junction in South India, namely Vijayawada is just 45 minutes drive from the University campus.
The Gannavaram airport is about an hour drive from the campus and it provides daily flights to major cites like Bangalore, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Delhi.
Encouraging Merit.
Vignan's Deemed to be University strongly believes that financial constraints should not be an obstacle for meritorious / socially or economically backward students to enjoy access to high quality education. The institution offers scholarships to meritorious students based on their performance in
V-SAT
EAMCET
Intermediate / +2 Marks
Academic Scholarships to the extent of Rs. 84 lakhs are provided to 2nd, 3rd and 4th year students, who constitute the top 5 percent of their respective branch in the present academic year.
Chalking out a Career of Choice
Incubation Centers
The University seeks to create an ecosystem for industries to take up the development or testing of
particular technologies on campus using the expertise/skills of the faculty and students. Those with
research aptitude work in these centers to test and convert their innovative ideas into commercially
viable products. The University supports them by providing the seed money and facilities to incubate
their ideas.
Entrepreneurship Development
At Vignan, students are imparted managerial skills besides being enabled technical competencies. The
University encourages students to develop entrepreneurial skills and start their own enterprises.
Students are motivated to become employers and create jobs rather than seek jobs.
Keeping pace with Industry
Contemporary Courses
It is an established fact that human behaviour is influenced by the surroundings. The serene atmosphere of a temple has an elevating effect on all of us.
Guided by this fact, meticulous care has been taken in the design of the University campus. The beautifully landscaped campus has green tree lined avenues, lush green lawns, spacious classrooms, open corridors, and large playgrounds.
All this creates a pleasant and stress free atmosphere for students to learn and develop.
Humanities
For students aspiring to make a career in public services, the Humanities programme helps to get a broad exposure on a wide range of subjects from polity to data interpretation.
Join the Ranks of the highest Cadre in the Country
Focus on UPSC
As an endeavour to contribute civil servants of the highest integrity to the nation,
the deemed to be university has undertaken a unique initiative to offer an integrated B.Tech+ Civil Services Programme from the first year itself. The programme is structured to help students complete all the segments of the Civil Services Examination (UPSC) by the time they graduate with their engineering degree. At the end of the programme,
students will get a minor degree in humanities along with their major in 8.Tech.
The goal is to enable at least five to tim youngsters to quality for coveted positers every year.
Vignan has already produced an LAS 5th ranker Mr. A. Sridhar Babw in the year 2007, After serving as the Dutie Collector of Uttarskhand, he is curranths serving as Secretary,
Tobacco Board, Guntur, Ministry of Comnmerce & Indus Govt. of india.
Training for an Extra Edge
Campus Recruitment Training (CRT)
A 200 hour programme is offered to motivate students and get them into the rigorous mode of preparation
for campus placement drives. 'Quantitative Ability, Verbal Ability, Reasoning Skills and Soft Skills,
Mock interview sessions are conducted by in-house and external trainers for promoting placements.
Win-Win tie-ups with Industry
The University has MoUs with industry for curriculum development, collaborative R&D and training students as well as faculty. The university has MoUs with AMD, Hiremee,
Ridsys, Byjucee and AGS.
Collaborated with FACE and ITC etc. for providing better placements/ internships in software and core areas.
The university enjoys an accredited status with TCS.
A Rich Repository for Learning
NTR Library
The central library stocks more than 72026 volumes, examination papers,
and books for research and plenty of audio and visual material apart from about 280 national referred
journals. Also available are preparation materials for GRE, TOEFL, IELTS, GATE, etc.
Each department has its own library to serve as a quick reference center.
The department library hoids around 400 books, journals, project reports, recorded lectures etc. for advanced learning.
Institutional LMS
Every student get access to institutional
LMS, which provides digital content in the form of videos, PPTs, Assignments, quiz, forums, VPL etc.
Vignan offers its students a good range of e-learning tools that proside access to lecture notes,
study materials and opportunities for online discussions with, fellow students and tutors. The web based resources in text, video, audio and image formats,
online tests and assignments facilitates a thorough assimilation of the subject.
Let’s Create History Together. Join Vignan
Apply Now
Vignan’s Foundation for Science, Technology, and Research (Vignan) met the accreditation requirements of the International Accreditation Organization (IAO) and was granted full accreditation.
Learn More
Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research
(Deemed to
be University), Vadlamudi, Guntur-522213
info@vignan.ac.in
0863-2344700 / 701
Students
Pay Tution Fee
Examinations
Internship
Portal
Slam book
Student-ExitFeedback
Outlook (Access
Mail)
Anti-Ragging
Grievance Redressal
Student Portal
Apply Online
Refund Policy
Others
Blog
Essential Contacts
Vignan TBI
Voice of Vignan
MHRD-NMEICT
Feedback
VU Today
Vignan Brand Mall
Academic Collaborations
SEDC
SDG (Sustainable Development Goals)
IKS (Indian Knowledge System)
Equal opportunity cell
Facilities for differently-abled
UGC e-Samadhan portal
NCTE
ITEP
Internal Portals
Accreditation
NAAC
DSIR
Certified
Copyrights © 2026 Vignan University. All rights reserved.
internal portals
Student
Internship Portal
Slam Book
Outlook ( Access Mails)
HEIs
DSIR Certified
OTHERS
SEDG
Blogs
MHRD- NMEICT
Copyrights © 2026 VFSTR. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
