SOURCE URL: https://vignan.ac.in/newvignan/u-life.php

University Life at Vignan | Diverse Campus, Quality Facilities & Student Councils
Vignan University
విజ్ఞాన్ శాస్త్ర సాంకేతిక పరిశోధనా సంస్థ / विग्नान शास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और परिशोधन संगठन
Careers
Alumni
Admissions
Mandatory Disclosure
Quick links
International Students
Hyd (Off Campus)
Vignan Online
Webmail
Mandatory Disclosures
IQAC
FIIP
Industry Relations
Pay Tuition Fee
AR Complaint form
Contact Us
Home
Academics
Programs
Schools
Assessments
Academic Calendar
Policies & handbooks
Why choose us?
Regulations
Admission
Research
Project Funding Opportunities
Research Meetings
ODEC Meetings
People
Faculty
University
Life
About Us
HYD Campus
New Student
Convocation LIVE
Parent
DSIR Recognition
The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) is a part of the Ministry of Science and Technology, which was announced through a Presidential Notification, dated January 4, 1985 (74/2/1/8 Cab.) contained in the 164th Amendment of the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961.The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) has a mandate to carry out the activities relating to indigenous technology promotion, development, utilisation and transfer
DSIR has been decided to accord the recognition to Vignan’s foundation of Science & Research (Deemed to be University), Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh from 30 Aug 2018 to 31 Mar 2021.
View Document
NBA Recognition
View Document (2020-23)
View Document (2023-26)
View Document (2026-28)
REFUND/CANCELLATION POLICY
Fee refund norms against cancellation of admissions:
For cancellation of admission, the issue of refund of tuition fee to student shall be decided in the light of MHRD circular, UGC norms (UGC regulations 2016, 6.2) and University policy. The broad rules for refund of tution fee against cancellation of seat are:
Admission fee is non-refundable, once student is provisionally admitted.
Tuition fee paid will be refunded if the student cancel his /her admission before the commencement of class work.
Prior to closing of admissions and after commencement of class work, tuition fee is refundable with proportionate deduction of monthly fee.
Once admissions are closed, the entire fee collected shall be forfeited.
ARIIA
Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) is an initiative of Ministry of Education (MoE), Govt. of India to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities in India on indicators related to “Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development” amongst students and faculties. The first edition was launched in 2019.
The methodology designed to calculate ARIIA metrics considers all major parameters/ indicators used globally to rank education institutions for innovation output. Additionally, ARIIA also measures some parameters which are India specific considering the current scenario and status of higher education in India.
Vignan Institute’s departments like Bio-tech, Food, Agricultural and Engineering Technologies s are part of innovation and startup ecosystem of the institute.
ABET Recognition
The university has secured ABET Accreditation for Five of its programs: CSE, EEE, ECE, Mechanical Engineering and Biotechnology.
This prestigious American based Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) places Vignan's
University among the 12 exclusive institutions in India to attain this
rare distinction.
Graduates from ABET-accredited programs benefit from global recognition of their degrees, enhanced employability, and opportunities for high-profile careers
and advanced studies at leading organisations worldwide.
PRIVACY POLICY
The Privacy Policy governs the use of this website.
VFSTR University is committed to protect your privacy and works towards offering you a useful, safe online experience.
Your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given by VFSTR University, to any other institution for any reason whatsoever, without your consent.
VFSTR University reserves the right, in its discretion, to change or modify all or any part of this Agreement at any time, effective immediately upon notice published on the site. Your continued use of the website constitutes your binding acceptance of these terms and conditions, including any changes or modifications made by Vignan University as permitted above.
VFSTR University treats your personal information or your use of the service as private and confidential and does not check, edit or reveal it to any third party except where it believes in good faith, such action is necessary to comply with the applicable legal and regulatory processes or to protect and defend the rights of other users or to enforce the terms of service which are binding on all the users of the site.
Except where specifically agreed upon or necessary for operational or regulatory reasons VFSTR University will not send you any unsolicited information via e-mail. The user can nevertheless unsubscribe from receipt of such e-mails by following instructions therein.
VFSTR University may collect unnamed statistics, which do not personally identify you and reserves the right to perform statistical analyses of user behavior and characteristics in order to measure interest in and use of the various areas of the site.
The information contents provided on this site cannot be copied, modified, uploaded, downloaded, published or republished, transmitted or otherwise distributed for commercial purposes without prior and explicit permission from the concerned authorities.
Reproduction of any information or material provided on this website, with or without any modification, is prohibited unless, with prior permission of Vignan University and shall amount to violation of copyright and would be deemed an illegal act.
All matters of dispute shall be dealt under the jurisdiction of Calcutta High Court
Terms & Conditions
Learn, Thrive, Enjoy, and Grow
The beautifully landscaped campus has green tree lined avenues, lush green lawns, spacious classrooms, open corridors and large playgrounds.
Stimulating Ambience
The campus at Vignan’s University, with its lush greenery, offers an enchanting haven for those embarking on their academic journey amidst the vibrant environment of a multicultural campus.
View More
Student Council
The Student Activities Council (SAC) at Vignan’s University is a student-led organization committed to enriching the college journey for all students.
Read More
Sports Cell
The Sports and Games Cell of the institute is dedicated with a team comprising 9 Physical Directors (PDs), 9 Special Coaches, and 10 assistants.
The primary aim of the National Cadet Corps is to foster the development of character, camaraderie, and leadership skills among the youth of India.
UEAC
UEAC activities are aimed at instilling social consciousness and responsibility among budding engineers
Fleet of Buses
Around 46 buses connect the university to various locations, including Guntur, Tenali, Vijayawada, Repalle, Bapatla, Chirala, and Chilakaluripet, ensuring comfortable and affordable transportation for students at regular intervals.
High-Speed Internet
The campus offers 1Gbps internet, enabling students to access e-learning materials & resources for assignments, projects, and self-study.
Banking Facility
The ATM on campus provides 24/7 banking services to students, faculty, and staff, offering convenient access to cash withdrawals and other banking needs.
Sports Amenities
The campus features extensive outdoor sports facilities, including cricket, football, volleyball, tennis, basketball, and a 400-meter athletics track. Additionally, an indoor sports facility provides resources for indoor games such as table tennis and badminton.
Kabbadi
Athletics
Cricket
Explore All Amenities
Basketball
Art & Cultural Amenities
The institution offers extensive opportunities and amenities for various clubs, including literary, cultural, sports, and fine arts. These clubs serve as platforms for students to showcase their inherent talents and interests. With well-designed infrastructure in place, the institution enables students to organize and engage in a diverse range of recreational activities.
Major Events
MAHOTSAV
01 FEB 2024
AAVEGA
15 MAY 2023
KAIZIEN
13 MAY 2024
SRUJANANKURA
17 MAR 2023
Facilities
Canteen and Shopping Facility
Medical Facility
Hostel Facility
Security and safety
Transport Facility
Banking facility
Library
A Treasure of learning resources
Vignan University provides you access to unparalleled resources and facilities. Regardless of your chosen field of study, we ensure that you have access to a wide variety of learning tools to realize your educational goals.
Institutional LMS
As a Vignan student, you gain access to our institutional LMS. This robust platform offers a wealth of digital content, including videos, PowerPoint presentations, assignments, quizzes, forums, Virtual Programming Labs (VPL), and much more. This would be your one-stop digital hub for engaging yourself with course materials and interacting with peers and faculty.
24 x 7 Internet - Access
Vignan takes pride in its affiliation with the National Mission on Education through ICT, MHRD. This distinction enables us to provide blazing-fast 1 Gbps internet connectivity that allows you access to e-journals and books via the National Knowledge Network (NKN) round the clock.
NTR Library
It is an artistically designed, elegantly furnished, fully air-conditioned facility with indoor greenery, modern furniture, and reprographic conveniences. Separate enclaves for individual and group study help students use the library for longer hours. Apart from books relevant to the curriculum, a rich collection of books and journals useful for general study and research activities is also accessible.
The NTR Vignan Library stocks more than 1,20,100 volumes, examination papers, and books for research, as well as plenty of audio and visual material, in addition to the 280 national-referenced journals. Also available are preparation materials for GRE, TOEFL, IELTS, GATE, etc.
Each department has its own library to serve as a quick reference centre. The department library holds around 400 books, journals, project reports, recorded lectures, etc. for advanced learning.
E-Learning
Vignan deploys cutting-edge education technologies, which is evident in the range of e-learning tools and platforms available for student use. You can access lecture notes, study materials, and engage in online discussions with your fellow students and tutors. You can enjoy the rich array of web-based resources, including text, video, audio, and images. Online tests and assignments pave the way for a continuous and comprehensive understanding of your subjects.
Explore More
Emotional and Psychological Development.
In addition to state-of-the-art facilities, we provide personalized counseling and unlimited sessions at the Student Counseling Centre to address academic, personal, and professional challenges. Many students have found significant benefits from these counseling sessions.
Holistic Training Program at Vignan
In order to foster physical fitness among students, sports and related activities are given significant recognition and weight in the curriculum. The goal of Vignan University's value-added programmes, co-curricular activities, and extracurricular events is to develop students into adaptable, energetic professionals. A range of programmes are organized by the Student Activities Council and 40+ optional clubs to develop students' abilities and life skills.
Extended emotional support Vignan provides
We provide a nurturing environment with comprehensive emotional support, fostering student
well-being and resilience throughout their educational journey.
Anti Ragging
According to the Indian Penal Code (IPC), ragging is a social ill and a crime. As such, students are not allowed to engage in any kind of ragging on or off campus. As a defender of high moral standards and values.
Grievance Redressal
A committee attends to both the academic and personal problems of the students, such as academic functioning, lab facilities, access to information, unfair evaluation in exams (if any), and any discrimination based on gender or social status.
Institutional Committees
Parents Teachers
Association
View Details
Hostel Governing Body
International Students Council
View All
Vignan’s Foundation for Science, Technology, and Research (Vignan) met the accreditation requirements of the International Accreditation Organization (IAO) and was granted full accreditation.
Learn More
Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research
(Deemed to
be University), Vadlamudi, Guntur-522213
info@vignan.ac.in
0863-2344700 / 701
Students
Pay Tution Fee
Examinations
Internship
Portal
Slam book
Student-ExitFeedback
Outlook (Access
Mail)
Anti-Ragging
Student Portal
Apply Online
Refund Policy
Others
Blog
Essential Contacts
Vignan TBI
Voice of Vignan
MHRD-NMEICT
Feedback
VU Today
Vignan Brand Mall
Academic Collaborations
SEDC
SDG (Sustainable Development Goals)
IKS (Indian Knowledge System)
Equal opportunity cell
Facilities for differently-abled
UGC e-Samadhan portal
NCTE
ITEP
Internal Portals
Accreditation
NAAC
DSIR
Certified
Copyrights © 2026 Vignan University. All rights reserved.
internal portals
Student
Internship Portal
Slam Book
Outlook ( Access Mails)
HEIs
DSIR Certified
OTHERS
SEDG
Blogs
MHRD- NMEICT
Copyrights © 2026 VFSTR. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Soft Skills
Soft skills are given utmost priority in any business context and these skills are
becoming truly significant for business growth and career development of job
aspirants. In this respect, we train and encourage our young aspiring students to
become professionals with dynamic leadership qualities and managerial skills. The
training provides holistic development of the students to see them as future dynamic
managers.
The training ensures development of skills such as:
Critical thinking and problem solving
Collaboration
Agility and adaptability
Initiative and entrepreneurialism
Effective oral and written communication
Accessing and analysing information
Curiosity and imagination
Understanding importance of the soft skills at global work place and to bridge the
skill gap between the industry requirements and academics; Vignans' Training Cell
has designed a crash training course for the B.Tech 2nd year students. Course
Duration: 20 to 25 hours in a semester.
Salient Features of the Course:
To develop oral communication through short presentations, discussions etc.
To develop leadership skills through assigning mini project works in small teams
To Build team skills through group discussions
To build resume to reach specific needs of a company
To Provide mock interviews
To Identify straits self through personal SWOC analysis
To Enhance time management skills
Training Methodology:
Explaining the concepts and providing hands on Practice in work sheets
Exposure to TEDx videos and other eminent persons talks to develop presentation
skills
Interactive sessions along with the presentations to develop students' speaking
examinations skills
Conducting Mock interviews to develop presence of mind and build confidence
Group Discussions to develop team and leadership skills
Benefit for the Students:
On successful completion of the course every student will be awarded appreciation
certificate and provided feedback for the individuals.
Trainers:
The Training Cell has a well-equipped qualified in-house training faculty to train
the students. The faculty are ready to serve at the students' needs and create
friendly learning environment to inculcate the soft skills. In addition to this,
external resource persons are also invited to train the students in various aspects.
Holistic Training
As reflected in its vision statement, the institutional mission is clearly
aligned to the national goal, as it strives to prepare knowledgeable and
employable professionals, who are psychologically strong, emotionally balanced,
and socially conscious, so that they are able to enjoy a productive and
successful career in future. Program wise eligibility criteria’s are mentioned
below.
Keeping this in mind the institution provides a wide gamut of activities for the
holistic development and progression of the students. As a part of this, special
care is taken in conducting various training programs for students to enhance
their capability.
Language & Communication Skills
Since most of the students are from rural areas, the institution takes
appropriate steps to improve their oral communication and proficiency in
English. Each student undergoes training in three phases starting from their
first year to third year that enriches their communication skills. The training
programs are as follows:
TECHNICAL ENGLISH COMMUNICATION (TEC)
This program focuses majorly on improving the basic vocabulary that is required
for a student to participate actively in the classroom discussions. It helps to:
Strengthen the reading and listening comprehension skills of student to
follow the academic discourse in the engineering classroom.
Have a command of basic vocabulary related to different subject matters.
Have a grasp on the mechanics of writing and expressing the ideas
through construction of simple texts.
ENGLISH PROFICIENCY & COMMUNICATION SKILLS (EPCS)
The objective of this program is to introduce the specific uses of English to
students and to improve the language proficiency of students in communicating
the meaning verbally, as well as writing. In this programme, all applicants must
be able to demonstrate that they have the English proficiency required for their
individual program.
Students are provided with a platform to enhance their Reading, Writing,
Listening, and Speaking skills. These are measured by standardized and
internationally recognized tests, such as Cambridge English Language Assessment
which are usually marked on a band score. Preliminary English Test (PET) is one
of such Cambridge English Qualifications for which students are provided with an
opportunity to attend through this program. It is the English language exam that
shows you have mastered the basics.
English level B1 is the third level of English in the Common European Framework
of Reference (CEFR), a definition of different language levels written by the
Council of Europe. In everyday speech, this level would be called
"intermediate", and indeed, that is the official level descriptor in the CEFR.
Student Activities Council
In a student's life, education is not solely about academics, rhetorical studies, lectures and seminars but about learning many more important social and life skills like leadership skills, group dynamics etc., Which are considered to be highly essential elements for a student to transform into successful engineer. And Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research University truly believes in this fact. To ensure sharpening of minds and strengthening of souls, the students of Vignan have built their own student body: the Student Activities Council.
The Student Activities Council of 80 members is elected annually from among the nominees and selections done through a democratic process involving a panel of faculty members and student representatives drawn from across all departments. It has a President, Vice Presidents, General Secretaries, Member Secretaries and a Treasurer, supported by a sub-structure of various committees, who plan, organize and execute a plethora of Co and Extracurricular events and competitions on campus. The student activities council has emerged truly on the distinct determination and inseparable co-ordination of the students in working towards success. SAC is the leading student programming board on campus. Here in vignan, SAC aids in providing meaningful and enjoyable, social, cultural and educational programs and events that appeal and are accessible to the widest group of students possible, both on and off campus.
This student activities council ensures the students that their journey in this campus is not just filled with intellectual studies but with more involvement of passion, interests and creativity. SAC extends its roots to every student who wants to develop professionally, socially, contribute to a team and be inspiringly successful.
SAC is diversified just as students are, into various departments leading to more a tension free and peaceful work atmosphere. Starting from team logistics, stage management, technical controls through media and public relations ending in literary, cultural, fine arts is the departmenting of this council. Student activities council is established to be a platform with fostering leadership, managerial skills and group dynamics. This is a stage where people with vivid as well as similar mindsets meet, initiate, discuss, share, and present their ideas. This council also envisions in students being able to manage and maintain good relations, networking and adapt the culture of work streams. Following a typical framework and conventional functioning policies, the student activities council will be active on a daily basis to keep up the spirits of the inhabitants of the campus.
Thus ,the student activities council being the most happening student body, is gripped as the backbone for all student activities and has grown , is growing and will grow to be the most efficient, reliable , effective student body. VFSTR's student activities council works according to its motto that there are no secrets to success. It's the preparation, hard work and learning from failure."
Planning and Execution of Institution clubs:
The best way to ever experience the vast spectrum of activities would be to join the various clubs .These clubs will help students to meet other enthusiasts and experts inthe fields and thus create the perfect learning environment, making the clubs a hugebank of collective knowledge which is passed from one batch to another.
There are 13 optional clubs categorized into four major groups such as cultural, Literary, fine arts and Innovators club which are overseen by the Student ActivitiesCouncil of the institution.
In addition to the conduction of club activities various events will be planned by the Student Activities council. On this regard an activity calendar of all the training activities organized under clubs and other activities will be interspersed by the Student Activities Council and it ensures their execution as per the schedule.
Click for Glimpses of Student Activities Organised by Student Council
Sports & Culturals
The institution provides rich scope and facilities for different clubs like literary, cultural, sports and fine arts. These clubs offer a platform for students to exhibit their innate and latent talents in the areas of their interest.For facilitating students to conduct and participate in the wide spectrum of recreational activities,the institution has well planned infrastructure.
Open-air Theatres:
Two spacious open-air theatres are available with a capacity of 1500 to 2000 students for the use of different co-curricular and extra curricular activities as well as to conduct mega events like Vignan Mahostav (A National Level Youth Festival).
Seminar Halls:
State of the art Seminar and Gallery halls in both the Visweswaraiah and Aryabhatta blocks give scope for conduction of Intra- Departmental literary, cultural events.
Sports Facilities:
The campus is equipped with facilities for all outdoor games like cricket, football, volleyball, tennis, basketball, and a 400-meter track athletics. An Indoor Sports Complex offers provision for indoor games like table tennis, badminton etc.
To keep the students motivated,the physical educational department under the supervision of a well qualified Physical Director conducts intramurals round the year for keeping the sports persons well practiced and ready to participate whenever, there is a state level or national level event.
Sports Facilities
Out door Games
Athletics Track (400mts) - 1
Volley Ball Courts - 9
Lawn Tennis - 2 (Clay courts)
Indoor Games
Table Tennis Boards - 2
Carroms and Chess
Girls Play Arena
Ball Badminton - 2
Foot Ball Field - 1
Basket Ball Court - 2
Tennicoit - 7
Throw Ball - 3
National Cadet Corps
Objective:
The objective of National Cadet Corps is to develop character, comradeship, and capacity for leadership among youth in India.
The VFSTR NCC Company motivates the students with best training and the ideals of selfless service.
The training inculcates team spirit, a sense of nationalism and it also helps in developing the overall personality of an individual and thus enabling them to become a responsible citizen of this nation.
Go to NCC page
Formation:
The VFSTR NCC 138-B Sub Unit (Senior Division and Senior Wing) under the control of 25(Andhra) BATTALION NCC, GUNTUR - GROUP was started in 2009.
The VFSTR NCC 65-G Sub Unit (Senior Wing) under the control of 10(Andhra) GIRLS BATTALION NCC, GUNTUR - GROUP was started in 2011.
Contact:
138-B, 25(A) BN NCC:
Lt Siva Koteswararao Chinnam
Associate NCC Officer
138-B, 25(A) BN NCC, Guntur
vfstrncc@gmail.com
65-G(A), 10(A) Girls BN NCC:
Lt Keerthi Priya Yadala
65-G(A), 10(A) Girls BN NCC, Guntur
keerthi.kavi111@gmail.com
University Extension Activity Council
The UEAC Unit of VFSTR was established in the year 2009, (continued erstwhile Vignan's Engineering College NSS unit under new name) to motivate students towards community oriented service.
These activities are aimed at instilling social consciousness and responsibility among budding engineers.
These activities also enable the VFSTR to forge strong links with community and help in its development through various extension activities.
It also encourages the involvement of the community in the college growth and development.
A SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENT
The UEAC unit has received a Silver Medal through Indian Red Cross Society announced by Honorable Governor of Andhra Pradesh in the year 2016.
It's not a single day effort, it is the continuous process from the last 6 years by organizing various Blood donation camps, Tree plantations, Special camps, old age home visits, orphan home visits, raise the fund to Armed forces &flood effected people in the villages of Pedalanka & Pesarlanka, AIDS day, Voters day, Water day, Rallies, Camps in the adopted schools like Eye checkup, Dental Checkup, Health Checkup, Academic classes and providing Infrastructure support & Hygienic food for X class students at the time of their examinations.
Go to UEAC page
The campus offers 1Gbps internet, enabling students to access e-learning materials & resources for assignments, projects, and self-study. 3 internet centers in academic blocks and the library provide additional access, while the campus-wide Wi-Fi ensures connectivity from anywhere.
