SOURCE URL: https://vignan.ac.in/inadproc.php

Vignan University
About Us
Overview
Chancellor
Vice-Chancellor
Apex Bodies
Registrar
Finance Officer
Deans
School Deans
Institutional Committees
UG Admissions
B.Tech / B.Pharmacy
B.Sc(Hons) Agriculture
B.Sc PGBT BioTechnoogy
Lateral Entry
BBA / BCA
B.Sc
BBA.LL.B / BA.LL.B
PG & Ph.D Admissions
M.Tech.
M.A. English
M.Sc. Chemistry
Ph.D
International Admissions
Admission Procedure
Rules & Regulations
Application Form
Scholarships-African Countries
Visa
Contact Details
Departments
Advanced Computer Science and Engineering
Agri. & Horti. Sciences
Agriculture Engineering
Biotechnology
Biomedical Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering
Department of Chemistry
Department of Physics
Department of Mathematics
Department of English & Other Indian and Foreign Languages
Electronics and Communication Engineering
Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Food Technology
Information Technology
Institute of Law
Mechanical Engineering
Management Studies
Pharmaceutical Sciences
Robotic & Automation Engineering
Sciences & Humanities
Textile Technology
Distance & online Education
Civil Services
Current Students
Examinations
Policies & Hand Books
Regulations
Scholarships
Essential Contacts
Student Council
University Life
Library
Alumni
Stay Connected
Contact Us
Contact
विज्ञान शास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और परिशोधन संगठन
విజ్ఞాన శాస్త్ర సాంకేతిక పరిశోధనా సంస్థ
Home
About us
Vision
To evolve into a centre of excellence in Science & Technology through creative and innovative practices in teaching - learning, towards promoting academic achievement and research excellence to produce internationally accepted, competitive and world class professionals who are psychologically strong & emotionally balanced imbued with social consciousness & ethical values.
Mission
To provide high quality academic programmes, training activities, research facilities and opportunities supported by continuous industry - institute interaction aimed at promoting employability, entrepreneurship, leadership and research aptitude among students and contribute to the economic and technological development of the region, state and nation.
Awards and Accolades
Organizational Structure
Annual Reports
Admissions
UG Programmes
Electronics & Communication Engineering
ACSE
AIML
CSBS
Data Science
Electrical & Electronics Engineering
B.Pharmacy
Robotics & Automation Engineering
B.Sc(Hons)Agriculture
B.Sc (Computers)
BBA.LL.B
BA.LL.B
Diploma : ECE
Apply Now
Fee Structure & Scholarships
PG Programmes
Embedded Systems
VLSI Design
Computer Science & Engineering
Power Electronics & drives
Food Processing Technology
Machine Design
Farm Machinery
Structural Engineering
M.A(Eng)
M.Sc(Chem)
Ph.D Programmes
Apply for Ph.D
International Admission
Research
Department of Sciences & Humanities
Academics
Academic Calendars
UEAC (NSS)
Sports Contingent
Ambience
Sports & Culturals
General Facilities
Infrastructure
Library Services
Library Automation
Online Resources
Contact us
Hyderabad Off Campus
VSAT 2026
Related Links
B.Tech
BBA & BCA
M.Tech
MBA & MCA
Research Programmes
MoUs
Category of Foreign / NRI students
Click here
Foreign Students Admissions under Study in India program for the A.Y 2021-22
SII - Scholarships Seat Details-2022
Foreign/NRI students are categorized as follows
Sponsored either by the home country of the concerned or by the funding agencies.
Self-financing direct entry (with the clearance of Govt. of India).
NRI students.
Reservation of seats
5% of the total intake capacity (from category B seats) of UG and PG programmes is earmarked for foreign students / to the children of Indians working in the Gulf or South East Asia and other foreign nations. Foreign/NRI students shall be admitted to Ph.D. programme but not exceeding two (2) in a department / school in an academic year.
Eligibility
Qualification
Candidates born on or after 1st July 1998 and having passed in qualifying examination with a minimum of 50% aggregate marks are eligible for admission. Only those students, whose degree certificate/school passing certificate / diploma obtained from their respective country / Universities or Boards of Higher Education, recognized as equivalent to those in India, by the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) are eligible for admission. As and when required, a reference will be made to AIU to check the equivalence.
Proficiency in English
A Foreign/NRI student who has been granted provisional admission to any of the programmes are required to take the Remedial English Language Course (100 hrs English Proficiency Course) offered in the Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology & Research (Deemed to be University), as a part of the curriculum.
Provisional admission form
The application for provisional admission is to be submitted to the Dean-Admissions along with the prescribed fees on or before the last date specified. Directorate of Admissions will then check the eligibility and issue the provisional admission letter. This is required to obtain the visa and to complete other formalities.
Provisional admission procedure
Apply for provisional eligibility in the prescribed form which can be downloaded from the VFSTR website. The prescribed eligibility fee has to be deposited along with the form on or before the specified last date.
Attach with this application form, photo copies of the statement of marks of the last qualifying examination duly attested by:
Indian Embassy in foreign country, (or)
High Commissioner of students' country in India, (or)
Ministry of Education of his/her home country
In case of Ph.D application, enclose 6 copies of the outline of the proposed research along with the application form.
Attach a minimum of two recommendation letters obtained from the faculty members who have taught the applicant earlier (at least one) or from the persons under whom the applicant has worked (at least one). Attach photo copy of Migration Certificate with the application form.
Attach affidavit to the application form relating to the gap between the year of passing and the last qualifying examination and the date of application for admission to this Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology & Research (Deemed to be University).
The Dean, Admissions will issue the provisional admission letter after scrutinizing the application form and on the basis of credentials verified by the Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology & Research (Deemed to be University) and as required by the Association of Indian Universities.
Certificates to be produced for final admission
For full time students,
click here...
For visiting students,
UG Courses Offered
Bioinformatics
Chemical Engineering.
CSE-AIML
CSE-CS
CSE-CSBS
CSE-Data Science(2022-23 Onwards)
Food Tech.
Mechanical Engineering.
Robotics and Automation Engineering.
PG Courses Offered
M.Tech Programmes
Professional PG Programmes
Master of Business Administration
Master of Computer Applications
Master of Arts (English)
Master of Science (Chemistry , Organic Chemistry)
other UG Courses
Ph.D Admissions for International Students
Applications for admission into Ph.D programme will be processed throughout the year.Initially students can download the application form from the VFSTR website
www.vignan.ac.in
. The duly filled in application form along with the Xerox copies of necessary certificates should be submitted to the Dean-Admissions for scrutinizing the eligibility of the applicants into Ph.D programme.
After establishing, the eligibility a 'Provisional Admission Offer Letter' will be issued to the eligible students. The date of reporting mentioned on the 'Provisional Admission Offer Letter' of the applicant is final and the validity of Admission Offer Letter gets automatically cancelled after the stipulated last date.
The students whose 'Masters' degree certificate obtained from their respective country/university or Board of Higher Education recognized as equivalentin India by Association of Indian Universities are only eligible for admission into Ph.D programme. As and when required, a reference will be made to AIU to check the equivalence.
For the students from non-English speaking countries will have to produce a certificate of English language proficiency, equivalent to TOEFL/IELTS. Absence of such certificate will necessitate them to undergo an in-house English proficiency course in line with Cambridge Language Course.
The applicant has to submit 'Provisional Admission offer Letter' along with other documentary evidence at the respective Embassy / Consulate of India and obtain 'Research Visa' which is mandatory of VFSTRU to admit the students into Ph.D programme.
All the Foreign students with a 'Research Visa' endorsed to pursue their Ph,D only at VFSTRU will be considered for joining Ph.D programme. No other endorsement is acceptable. The Visa should be valid for the prescribed duration of the course.
When the student reports in the office of Dean-Admissions with a valid 'Research Visa'along with all the original testimonials of qualification and eligibility,admission process will be initiated and seat allotment order will be issued by the Dean Admissions with a copy to the Head of the Department concerned. The same will be intimated to the Dean-R & D.
The Head of the Department concerned will admit the scholar and identify the suitable research guide / supervisor. The date of report of the foreign students to the Head of the Departments shall be the date of joining into the programme for all the purposes.
After confirmation of the admission and reporting to the HOD the Foreign students are required to obtain Bonafide Certificate from the office of Dean-Admissions and apply for Residential Permit in FRO, Guntur, Andhra Pradesh.
The foreign students are advised to submit a copy of the Residential Permit in the office of Dean Admissions immediately after obtaining the same from FRO, Guntur, A.P failing which the admission process remains incomplete.
Medical test:
All International/NRI students will have to undergo a medical fitness test including HIV test and submit the certificate prior to admission.
Medical Insurance:
It is mandatory that all Foreign/NRI students shall take a medical insurance policy to meet the expenses of their medical treatments (which are not available in the university health centre) during their stay at the campus. A copy of the said insurance policy should be submitted at the time of final admission.
*Visit Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology & Research (Deemed to be University) website www.vignan.ac.in, for
Hand Book
on Rules and regulations of Doctor of Philosophy Programme.
Right place for creative minds...
Welcome to a place with 45-year legacy of Academic Excellence. As you explore, you begin to find yourself in a well diversed and intellectually intriguing atmosphere
Explore Vignan
Quick Links
VU Moodle
Slambook
Grievance Redressal
NAD-ABC
NAAC
ARIIA
NIRF
IQAC
Anti Ragging
Holistic Training
Ph.D brouchure 2023
vignan brochure 2024
Vignan Online Education
vignan north brochure 2024
International brochure 2024
Statutory Approvals
National Scholarship Portal
Institutional Development
Plan
Reservation Roster
Important Links
MHRD-NMEICT Initiative
Feedback / Survey
Student-Exitfeedback
VU Today
e-Bulletin of APSCHE
117.192.192.131
Student Portal
Feedback on Website
Tuition Fee Payment
AICTE Internship Portal
VFSTR Mail
Deo Portal
Privacy Policy
Refund Policy
Blog
Faculty Profiles
Get In Touch
Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research (Deemed to be University), Vadlamudi, Guntur-522213
Phone:
0863-2344700
/ 701
Email:
info@vignan.ac.in
Copyrights © 2023 Vignan University. All rights reserved.
UG (B.Tech) Courses
CSE - AIML
CSE - CS
CSE - CSBS
PG (M.Tech) Courses
Professional PG Courses
Other UG Courses
BA. LL. B
BBA. LL. B
Vignan offers Ph.D. programmes in Engineering, Science, Management and English Streams.
Hello...
Don't have an account? Create your account. It's take less then a minutes
Login with social media
Facebook
Google+
Twitter
Create an Account
User name
Email id
Password
Confirm password
Are you a already member ? Login
Forgot password
User name or email id
Create a new account
