SOURCE URL: https://vignan.ac.in/phd.php

Vignan University
About Us
Overview
Chancellor
Vice-Chancellor
Apex Bodies
Registrar
Finance Officer
Deans
School Deans
Institutional Committees
UG Admissions
B.Tech / B.Pharmacy
B.Sc(Hons) Agriculture
B.Sc PGBT BioTechnoogy
Lateral Entry
BBA / BCA
B.Sc
BBA.LL.B / BA.LL.B
PG & Ph.D Admissions
M.Tech.
M.A. English
M.Sc. Chemistry
Ph.D
International Admissions
Admission Procedure
Rules & Regulations
Application Form
Scholarships-African Countries
Visa
Contact Details
Departments
Advanced Computer Science and Engineering
Agri. & Horti. Sciences
Agriculture Engineering
Biotechnology
Biomedical Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering
Department of Chemistry
Department of Physics
Department of Mathematics
Department of English & Other Indian and Foreign Languages
Electronics and Communication Engineering
Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Food Technology
Information Technology
Institute of Law
Mechanical Engineering
Management Studies
Pharmaceutical Sciences
Robotic & Automation Engineering
Sciences & Humanities
Textile Technology
Distance & online Education
Civil Services
Current Students
Examinations
Policies & Hand Books
Regulations
Scholarships
Essential Contacts
Student Council
University Life
Library
Alumni
Stay Connected
Contact Us
Contact
विज्ञान शास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और परिशोधन संगठन
విజ్ఞాన శాస్త్ర సాంకేతిక పరిశోధనా సంస్థ
Home
About us
Vision
To evolve into a centre of excellence in Science & Technology through creative and innovative practices in teaching - learning, towards promoting academic achievement and research excellence to produce internationally accepted, competitive and world class professionals who are psychologically strong & emotionally balanced imbued with social consciousness & ethical values.
Mission
To provide high quality academic programmes, training activities, research facilities and opportunities supported by continuous industry - institute interaction aimed at promoting employability, entrepreneurship, leadership and research aptitude among students and contribute to the economic and technological development of the region, state and nation.
Awards and Accolades
Organizational Structure
Annual Reports
Admissions
UG Programmes
Electronics & Communication Engineering
ACSE
AIML
CSBS
Data Science
Electrical & Electronics Engineering
B.Pharmacy
Robotics & Automation Engineering
B.Sc(Hons)Agriculture
B.Sc (Computers)
BBA.LL.B
BA.LL.B
Diploma : ECE
Apply Now
Fee Structure & Scholarships
PG Programmes
Embedded Systems
VLSI Design
Computer Science & Engineering
Power Electronics & drives
Food Processing Technology
Machine Design
Farm Machinery
Structural Engineering
M.A(Eng)
M.Sc(Chem)
Ph.D Programmes
Apply for Ph.D
International Admission
Research
Department of Sciences & Humanities
Academics
Academic Calendars
UEAC (NSS)
Sports Contingent
Ambience
Sports & Culturals
General Facilities
Infrastructure
Library Services
Library Automation
Online Resources
Contact us
Hyderabad Off Campus
VSAT 2026
Related Links
B.Tech.
BBA & BCA
MBA & MCA
MA English
M.Sc Chemistry
Collaborations
Hostel Info
Transport Facility
IT Services
Ph.D ADMISSIONS
The Ph.D program is aimed at giving a broad based training in the concerned field in addition to specialization in a particular area. The institution offers Ph.D. programmes in Engineering, Science, Management and English Streams.
Eligibility
Engineering Streams:
For Full Time scholar
: First class both in B.Tech and M.Tech with scholarship.
For Part Time scholar
: As per UGC rules and subject to written test and interview of the candidate by VFSTR (we usually selected candidates with first class in M.Tech).
The qualification required as per UGC rules for Ph .D admission is minimum 55% in post graduation relaxable 5% to SC / ST and OBC candidates.
UGC prescribes only minimum eligibility / standard required to admit into Ph.D Programmes. However, subject to demand and response for any specific progamme(s), VFSTR can set higher benchmark while selecting the candidates.
For engineering disciplines, candidates must have obtained PG degree or equivalent in any one of the relevant engineering specializations as recommended by the respective departments.
For management studies, candidates must have a Masters degree in business management or any Masters degree with relevant experience.
For biotechnology, sciences and humanities, candidates must have a relevant PG degree or equivalent degree as recommended by the respective departments.
However, a candidate with an inter-disciplinary requisite qualification may be considered for admission with the approval of concerned department and RMC.
Candidates must have obtained a minimum of 60% aggregate marks in the qualifying degree; however, deserving / exceptional cases may be referred to RMC.
Pharmaceutical Sciences:
: First class both in B.Pharmacy and M.Pharmacy or Pharm.D (We usually prefer GPAT qualified candidates) .
: As per UGC rules and subject to written test and interview of the candidate by VFSTR (We usually prefer GPAT qualified candidates).
Selection into Ph.D programme is evaluated on the basis of the academic performance (% Marks in B.Tech / UG & M.Tech / PG) and the institution last attended for Bachelors' and Masters' degree (Maximum 20% and 30% marks respectively), previous experience (each year 1 mark up to max. 5% marks), publications (2marks/Journal paper & 1 marks for conference paper up to maximum 5 % marks), written test (15% marks) and interview (25%marks)
Eligible candidates have to appear for a written test and interview.
All the candidates are required to qualify in a written test conducted by Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology & Research (Deemed to be University). Candidates, who have qualified in the GATE/CSIR/NET/CAT examination, are exempted from written test for Ph.D admission. However, they should appear for the interview.
Candidates who are recommended for selection by the concerned department are to be approved by the Dean (R&D) and Chairman, URB respectively. The same approved selection list shall be sent to Dean (Admission) for further action.
Candidates will be admitted in to the Ph.D program after payment of prescribed fees and completion of all the admission procedures.
Admitted candidates will report to the concerned department; a committee appointed by HoD will allot Research Supervisor for each candidate on mutual consent.
Notification of Ph.D Programmes
Ph.D Admission Notification
Pharmaceutical Ph.D Admission Notification
Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology & Research (Deemed to be University) receives Ph.D applications through out the year. But, admission test will be conducted twice every year December / January and July / August.
Attach a DD of
Rs.1000/-
drawn in favour of VFSTR Application Account payable at Guntur, to the filled in application form and send it to the
Dean - Admissions, Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology & Research (Deemed to be University), Vadlamudi-522 213, Guntur (dist.), A.P
Research Programmes in VFSTRU
Details of the programs offered in various departments are available in the following link.
Download Application
Application for Ph.D
Apply online
Regulations of Ph.D Programs
Ph.D. Rules and Regulations - 2023
Extra Mural Research
Post Doctoral Research
Flow chart of the programme
Formats
Following are the forms that can be used by the selected Candidates
Acceptance Letter from internal supervisor
No Objection Certificate from Employer
Right place for creative minds...
Welcome to a place with 45-year legacy of Academic Excellence. As you explore, you begin to find yourself in a well diversed and intellectually intriguing atmosphere
Explore Vignan
Quick Links
VU Moodle
Slambook
Grievance Redressal
NAD-ABC
NAAC
ARIIA
NIRF
IQAC
Anti Ragging
Holistic Training
Ph.D brouchure 2023
vignan brochure 2024
Vignan Online Education
vignan north brochure 2024
International brochure 2024
Statutory Approvals
National Scholarship Portal
Institutional Development
Plan
Reservation Roster
Important Links
MHRD-NMEICT Initiative
Feedback / Survey
Student-Exitfeedback
VU Today
e-Bulletin of APSCHE
117.192.192.131
Student Portal
Feedback on Website
Tuition Fee Payment
AICTE Internship Portal
VFSTR Mail
Deo Portal
Privacy Policy
Refund Policy
Blog
Faculty Profiles
Get In Touch
Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research (Deemed to be University), Vadlamudi, Guntur-522213
Phone:
0863-2344700
/ 701
Email:
info@vignan.ac.in
Copyrights © 2023 Vignan University. All rights reserved.
UG (B.Tech) Courses
Bioinformatics
CSE - AIML
CSE - CS
CSE - CSBS
PG (M.Tech) Courses
Professional PG Courses
Other UG Courses
BA. LL. B
BBA. LL. B
Vignan offers Ph.D. programmes in Engineering, Science, Management and English Streams.
Hello...
Don't have an account? Create your account. It's take less then a minutes
Login with social media
Facebook
Google+
Twitter
Create an Account
User name
Email id
Password
Confirm password
Are you a already member ? Login
Forgot password
User name or email id
Create a new account
