SOURCE URL: https://vignan.ac.in/newvignan/aboutus.php

About Vignan University – Top Engineering & Management Institution in Andhra Pradesh
Vignan University
విజ్ఞాన్ శాస్త్ర సాంకేతిక పరిశోధనా సంస్థ / विग्नान शास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और परिशोधन संगठन
Careers
Alumni
Admissions
Mandatory Disclosure
Quick links
International Students
Hyd (Off Campus)
Vignan Online
Webmail
Mandatory Disclosures
IQAC
FIIP
Industry Relations
Pay Tuition Fee
AR Complaint form
Contact Us
Home
Academics
Programs
Schools
Assessments
Academic Calendar
Policies & handbooks
Why choose us?
Regulations
Admission
Research
Project Funding Opportunities
Research Meetings
ODEC Meetings
People
Faculty
University
Life
About Us
HYD Campus
New Student
Convocation LIVE
Parent
DSIR Recognition
The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) is a part of the Ministry of Science and Technology, which was announced through a Presidential Notification, dated January 4, 1985 (74/2/1/8 Cab.) contained in the 164th Amendment of the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961.The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) has a mandate to carry out the activities relating to indigenous technology promotion, development, utilisation and transfer
DSIR has been decided to accord the recognition to Vignan’s foundation of Science & Research (Deemed to be University), Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh from 30 Aug 2018 to 31 Mar 2021.
View Document
NBA Recognition
View Document (2020-23)
View Document (2023-26)
View Document (2026-28)
REFUND/CANCELLATION POLICY
Fee refund norms against cancellation of admissions:
For cancellation of admission, the issue of refund of tuition fee to student shall be decided in the light of MHRD circular, UGC norms (UGC regulations 2016, 6.2) and University policy. The broad rules for refund of tution fee against cancellation of seat are:
Admission fee is non-refundable, once student is provisionally admitted.
Tuition fee paid will be refunded if the student cancel his /her admission before the commencement of class work.
Prior to closing of admissions and after commencement of class work, tuition fee is refundable with proportionate deduction of monthly fee.
Once admissions are closed, the entire fee collected shall be forfeited.
ARIIA
Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) is an initiative of Ministry of Education (MoE), Govt. of India to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities in India on indicators related to “Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development” amongst students and faculties. The first edition was launched in 2019.
The methodology designed to calculate ARIIA metrics considers all major parameters/ indicators used globally to rank education institutions for innovation output. Additionally, ARIIA also measures some parameters which are India specific considering the current scenario and status of higher education in India.
Vignan Institute’s departments like Bio-tech, Food, Agricultural and Engineering Technologies s are part of innovation and startup ecosystem of the institute.
ABET Recognition
The university has secured ABET Accreditation for Five of its programs: CSE, EEE, ECE, Mechanical Engineering and Biotechnology.
This prestigious American based Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) places Vignan's
University among the 12 exclusive institutions in India to attain this
rare distinction.
Graduates from ABET-accredited programs benefit from global recognition of their degrees, enhanced employability, and opportunities for high-profile careers
and advanced studies at leading organisations worldwide.
PRIVACY POLICY
The Privacy Policy governs the use of this website.
VFSTR University is committed to protect your privacy and works towards offering you a useful, safe online experience.
Your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given by VFSTR University, to any other institution for any reason whatsoever, without your consent.
VFSTR University reserves the right, in its discretion, to change or modify all or any part of this Agreement at any time, effective immediately upon notice published on the site. Your continued use of the website constitutes your binding acceptance of these terms and conditions, including any changes or modifications made by Vignan University as permitted above.
VFSTR University treats your personal information or your use of the service as private and confidential and does not check, edit or reveal it to any third party except where it believes in good faith, such action is necessary to comply with the applicable legal and regulatory processes or to protect and defend the rights of other users or to enforce the terms of service which are binding on all the users of the site.
Except where specifically agreed upon or necessary for operational or regulatory reasons VFSTR University will not send you any unsolicited information via e-mail. The user can nevertheless unsubscribe from receipt of such e-mails by following instructions therein.
VFSTR University may collect unnamed statistics, which do not personally identify you and reserves the right to perform statistical analyses of user behavior and characteristics in order to measure interest in and use of the various areas of the site.
The information contents provided on this site cannot be copied, modified, uploaded, downloaded, published or republished, transmitted or otherwise distributed for commercial purposes without prior and explicit permission from the concerned authorities.
Reproduction of any information or material provided on this website, with or without any modification, is prohibited unless, with prior permission of Vignan University and shall amount to violation of copyright and would be deemed an illegal act.
All matters of dispute shall be dealt under the jurisdiction of Calcutta High Court
Terms & Conditions
Genesis
Vignan's journey through time began in 1997 — a landmark year that saw the establishment of Vignan Engineering College, the first campus at Vadlamudi. Founded under the visionary leadership of the Vignan Educational Trust, this prestigious institution was brought to life by the dedication and foresight of Dr. Lavu Rathaiah, the driving force behind Vignan's legacy.
Our Vision
To evolve into a centre of excellence in Science & Technology through creative and innovative practices in teaching - learning, towards promoting academic achievement and research excellence to produce internationally accepted, competitive and world class professionals who are psychologically strong & emotionally balanced imbued with social consciousness & ethical values.
Our Mission
To provide high quality academic programmes, training activities, research facilities and opportunities supported by continuous industry - institute interaction aimed at promoting employability, entrepreneurship, leadership and research aptitude among students and contribute to the economic and technological development of the region, state and nation.
Management
Dr. Lavu Rathaiah
Chairman
Lavu Sri Krishna Devarayalu
Vice Chairman
Administration
Dr. Pavuluri Subba Rao
Chancellor
Prof. K. V. Krishna Kishore
Vice - Chancellor (i/c)
Prof. P. M. V. Rao
Registrar
Meet Our Administration
Institutional Committees
Parents Teachers Association
View Details
Admissions Advisory Committee
Evaluation Standards Committee
View All
Apex Bodies
Executive Council
Academic Council
Finance Committee
NIRF Document Links
2023 (University Level)
2022 (University Level)
2021 (University Level)
2020 (University Level)
2023 (Engineering Level)
2022 (Engineering Level)
2021 (Engineering Level)
2020 (Engineering Level)
2019
2018
2017
2016
Name
Designation & Address
Status
Prof. P. Nagabhushan
Vice - Chancellor, VFSTR
One person nominated by the Trust
Sri. L. Srikrishnadevarayalu
Vice-Chairman, Lavu Educational Society, Guntur
Member
Dr. Meghana Koorapati
Medical Director and Chief Surgeon, Dr Agarwals Eye Hospital, Guntur and CEO, VFSTR
Special Invitee
Three persons to be nomin in the Executive Council, out of whom at least one shall be a member of the Executive Council
Dr. Y. Sarat Director, United Health Systems Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad
Member, Executive Council
Dr. P. M. V. Rao, Registrar
Secretary, Executive Council
Prof. D. Vijaya Ramu,
Dean-SB&PS and Dean-AAA and Faculty Affairs
Commission (UGC) Representative
Dr. K. Sambathkumar
Former Associate Professor of Philosphy, Pachaiyappa’s College, Chennai
Three Persons to be nominated by the Chancellor
Shri. M. Chalapathi Rao
Retired District Judge
Mr. K. Pavan Krishna
CEO, Datumsense Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad
Mr. Ch.L. Srinivasa Reddy
Internal Auditor, Vignan Group of Institutions, Visakhapatnam
Mr. N.S.N. Murthy
Finance Officer
Member Secretary
Designation
Vice-Chancellor, VFSTR
Dean(s) of Faculties & Schools
Dr. D. Vijayaramu
Dean, Academics, Assessment and Awards & Faculty Affairs
Dr. Venkatesulu Dondeti
Dean, Research & Development
Dr. K.V. Krishna Kishore
Dean, Admissions & Recruitment; Dean, School of Computing and Informatics and HoD, CSE
Dr. Sk. Jakeer Hussain
Dean, Infrastructure, Planning & Monitoring
Dr. M.S.S. Rukmini
Dean, Student Affairs, Alumni Linkages, Gender Sensitization and Discipline
Dr. M. Ramakrishna
Dean, IQAC and Dean School of Core Engineering
Mr. D. Vijay Krishna
Dean, T & P and Dean School of Law & Management
Dr. Y. Ravisekhar
Dean, Technology Development,
Dean, School of Electrical, Electronics and Communication Engineering
Dr. N. Srinivasu
Dean, School of Applied Sciences and Humanities
Dr. T. Ramesh Babu
Dean, School of Agri, Food Science and Technology and Director AHS
Prof. A. Sharada
Dean, International Students
Heads of the Departments
Dr.Deevi Radha Rani
HoD, Advanced Computer Science and Engineering and Joint Dean-School of Computing and Informatics
Dr N. Veeranjaneyulu
Director, CDOE
Dr. Kamepalli Sujatha
HoD, Dept. of IT
Dr. Kurra Santhi Sri
HoD, Dept. of Computer Applications
Dr. N. Narayana Rao
HoD, AE
Dr. T. C. Venkateswarlu
HoD, Biotech.
Dr. M. Ramesh Naidu
HoD, Chem. Engg.
Dr. P Sundara Kumar
HoD, Civil Engg.
Dr. Sarada Musala
HoD, ECE
Dr. P.V.S. Shobhan
HoD, EEE
Dr. N Narayan Rao
HoD, Mech. Engg.
Dr. Sarita Satpathy
HoD, MBA
Dr. Ch. Jithendra
HoD, Pharmaceutical Science
Dr. T. Pitchaiah
HoD, Biomedical Engg.
Dr. N. Seshagiri Rao
HoD, Mathematics & Statistics
Dr. K. Venkata Madhuri
HoD, Physics
Prof. G Mohana Charyulu
HoD, English
Dr. Koya Prabhakara Rao
HoD, Chemistry
Dr. Partha Sarothi Rakshit
Director, Law
Dr. Adam Stephen
HoD, Social Sciences and Humanities
Ten Professors, Other Than the HoDs (by rotation based on inter-se seniority)
Dr. Kaki Venkat Rao
Professor of Mech. Engg.
Dr. V. Radha Krishna Murthy
Professor of Mathematics
Dr. J. Nitchat Kiran
Professor of Physics
Dr. P. Ashok Kumar
Professor of Chem. Engg.
Dr. B. Nageswara Rao
Dr. M. Sarada
Professor of ECE
Dr. N. Satya Sree
Professor of Chemistry
Prof. B. Srinivas Rao
Professor of MBA
Prof. Asadi Siva Sankar
Professor of Civil Engineering
Prof. D. John Babu
Professor of BioTechnology
Five Associate Professors Other Than HoDs (by rotation on Inter-se seniority)
Dr. S. Venkatarama Phani Kumar
Associate Professor of CSE
Dr. Anandarup Goswami
Associate Professor of Chemistry
Dr. K. Santhi Sri
Associate Professor of IT
Dr. P. Shiv Prasad
Dr. Shaik Anwar
Five Assistant Professors (by rotation on Inter-se seniority)
Dr. N. Ananda Rao
Assistant Professor of ECE
Dr. G. Nageswara Rao
Assistant Professor of S&H
Dr. Joshua Reginald
Mr. S Deva Kumar
Assistant Professor of CSE
Dr. Ch. Siva Koteswara Rao
Assistant Professor of IT
Six Persons from Amongst Educationists of Repute
Dr. Shanthi Swaroop
Director of Engineering, MathWorks, Hyderabad
Er. D. Rama Krishna
MD, Efftronics, Vijayawada
Prof. P. Sreenivasa Kumar
Professor, Dept. of CSE, IIT Madras
Dr. Subbarangaiah Kopparapu
Director & Professor at VEDA IIT, VLSI Physical Design, Hyderabad
Dr. R Balasubramanian
Professor, Department of Computer Sciences & Engineering, IIT Roorkee
Prof. Debi Prasad Mishra
Director, NITTTR, Kolkata
Dr. P. M. V. Rao
Registrar, VFSTR
Ex-Officio Secretary
Minutes of the 44th Academic Council (27.12.2025)
Minutes of the 43rd Academic Council (15.11.2025)
Minutes of the 42nd Academic Council (01.08.2025)
Minutes of the 41st Academic Council (24.05.2025)
Minutes of the 40th Academic Council (22.02.2025)
Minutes of the 39th Academic Council (30.11.2024)
Minutes of the 38th Academic Council (28.09.2024)
Minutes of the 37th Academic Council (13.07.2024)
Minutes of the 36th Academic Council (20.04.2024)
Minutes of the 35th Academic Council (16.12.2023)
Minutes of the 34th Academic Council (22.07.2023)
Minutes of the 33rd Academic Council (17.06.2023)
Minutes of the 32nd Academic Council (10.12.2022)
Minutes of the 31st Academic Council (30.07.2022)
Minutes of the 30th Academic Council (07.05.2022)
Minutes of the 29th Academic Council (18.12.2021)
Minutes of the 28th Academic Council (31.07.2021)
Minutes of the 27th Academic Council (20.03.2021)
Minutes of the 26th Academic Council (20.11.2020)
Minutes of the 25th Academic Council (05.09.2020)
Minutes of the 24th Academic Council (25.07.2020)
Minutes of the 23rd Academic Council (29.11.2019)
Minutes of the 22nd Academic Council (26.07.2019)
Minutes of the 21st Academic Council (29.04.2019)
Minutes of the 20th Academic Council (30.07.2018)
Minutes of the 19th Academic Council (12.05.2018)
Minutes of the 18th Academic Council (12.05.2018)
Minutes of the 17th Academic Council (12.05.2018)
Col. Prof. P. Nagabhushan
Two members from amongst the Deans of Schools of studies (by rotation) appointed by the Vice-Chancellor
Prof. M. Ramakrishna
Dean School of Core Engineering and Dean, IQAC
Prof. D. Vijayaramu
Dean, School of Biotechnology and Pharmaceutical Sciences and
Dean – Academics, Assessment & Awards and Faculty Affairs, VFSTR
One Professor who is not a Dean (by rotation) to be appointed by the Vice-Chancellor
One Associate Professor (by rotation) to be appointed by the Vice-Chancellor
Dr. Anandrup Goswami
Associate Professor, Dept. of Chemistry, VFSTR
One Assistant Professor (by rotation) to be appointed by the Vice-Chancellor
Dr. G.S. R. Satyanarayana
Assistant Professor of ECE, VFSTR
UGC Representative
Shri. P. Murali Manohar
Former Member Secretary, Mahatma Gandhi, National Council of Rural Education, Hyderabad
Four Nominees of the Sponsoring Body
Prof. P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy
Former-Vice-Chancellor Andhra University, Visakhapatnam
Dr. Y. Sarat
Director, United Health Systems Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad
Mr. L. Srikrishnadevarayalu
Dr. E.S. Chakravarthi
Former Vice President & Global RMG Head, TCS
Special Invitees
Medical Director and Chief Surgeon, Dr Agarwals Eye Hospital, Guntur
Prof. B.V.R. Chowdary
Senior Executive Director, (Strategic India and Initiatives) Office of the Provost, National University of Singapore
Shri. M. Malakondaiah,
Former DGP, AP
Prof. Latit M Patnaik
Adjunct Professor & NASI Sr. Scientist, Consciousness Studies Program, National Institute of Advanced Studies, IISc, Bengaluru (Former Vice-Chancellor, DIAT)
Minutes of 1st Executive Council Meeting
Minutes of 2nd Executive Council Meeting
Minutes of 3rd Executive Council Meeting
Minutes of 4th Executive Council Meeting
Minutes of 5th Executive Council Meeting
Minutes of 6th Executive Council Meeting
Minutes of 7th Executive Council Meeting
Minutes of 8th Executive Council Meeting
Minutes of 9th Executive Council Meeting
Minutes of 10th Executive Council Meeting
Minutes of 44th Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 43rd Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 42nd Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 41st Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 40th Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 39th Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 38th Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 37th Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 36th Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 35th Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 34th Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 33rd Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 32nd Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 31st Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 30th Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 29th Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 28th Board of Management Meeting
Minutes of 27th Board of Management Meeting
Institutional Development Plan
The five-year plan for the period between 2013-2018 is developed for effective functioning of the University in the following areas: Enhance Excellence in programs and services wherein it is proposed to take the action points on the existing courses and new courses coupled with interdisciplinary flavor. The second proposed point is Student success which is an essential aspect in any educational institution as the whole planning and monitoring is to make students to achieve success in their pursuits. Under this, impart skill training, strengthen weak students and Mold students for higher education have to be emphasized.
National Academic Depository (NAD)
The National Academic Depository (NAD) is an initiative led by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India (MHRD). It aims to serve as an online repository for academic awards such as certificates, diplomas, degrees, and mark sheets. Through NAD, academic institutions, boards, and eligibility assessment bodies can securely upload authenticated academic awards.
NAD holds immense potential for various stakeholders, including academic institutions, students, and prospective employers. With just a click, degrees, mark sheets, and certificates become readily accessible.
VFSTR Deemed to be a university, it became a participant in the NAD depository services on April 6, 2018, by signing a Service Level Agreement (SLA). Since then, the academic degrees conferred by VFSTR from the academic year 2009–2010 onwards have been systematically uploaded onto the NAD portal, adhering to the NAD certificate template format, and digitally signed for authentication.
VFSTR Deemed to be University participated in NAD depository
services on 06.04.2018 by signing Service Level Agreement (SLA). The
academic degrees awarded by VFSTR from the 2009-2010 onwards are
being uploaded into the NAD portal in the NAD certificate template
format (digitally signed).
Initiative of Government of India
Digitalisation & Authenticity
Convenience & Flexibility
Safe Storage
Reports
ANNUAL REPORT
The annual reports cover a broad range of topics, including academic activities, student engagements, faculty-generated content, departmental specifics, achievements in physical education and sports, and details regarding the university's budget.
View All Annual Report
University Annual Reports
2024-25
2019-20
2018-19
2017-18
2016-17
2015-16
FINANCIAL REPORTS
The Audit Report for charitable or religious trusts or institutions falls under the purview of Section 12A(b) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
View All Financial Report
University Financial Reports
Financial statement 2024-25
Financial statement 2023-24
Financial statement 2022-23
Financial statement 2021-22
Financial statement 2020-21
Financial statement 2019-20
Financial statement 2018-19
Financial statement 2017-18
Financial statement 2016-17
Financial statement 2015-16
Act and
Statutes
Our institution is proudly recognized by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), the Association of Business Teaching Education (ABTE), and the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI). These prestigious affiliations underscore our commitment to providing high-quality education, adhering to national standards, and offering accredited programs that prepare students for successful careers in their respective fields.
Know More
Study in India
The Study in India (SII) programme is a flagship project introduced by the Ministry of Education (MoE), Government of India. The Study in India portal (https://studyinindia.gov.in/) was jointly launched on 18th April 2018 by the former Minister of Union External Affairs, Late Smt. Sushma Swaraj, and the former Minister of State for HRD, Dr. Satya Pal Singh, at the India Habitat Centre in New Delhi. The Study in India programme seeks to endorse India as a prime education hub for international students by inviting them to pursue their higher education in the country. With an attractive set of salient features, the programme is the perfect platform for international students to experience the best of what Indian education has to offer.
Go to study in India Website
What guests say
Off-Campus
Hyderabad
Explore the enriching academic landscape beyond the campus confines in Hyderabad, where scholarly excellence intersects with the vibrant pulse of the city. Our off-campus programmes present students with distinctive avenues to immerse themselves in a lively academic setting nestled within a bustling and culturally diverse campus.
Explore
VFSTR Trust
At our organization, we establish and manage trusts to protect assets and ensure their proper distribution according to your wishes. Our expert team provides tailored solutions, offering privacy, control, and asset protection. Trust us to secure your legacy.
Dr. L. Rathaiah
President
Sri L. Srikrishna Devarayalu
Vice-President
Sri M. Chalapathi Rao
Secretary
Smt B. Rani Rudrama Devi
Joint-Secretary
Sri V. Rama Mohan Rao
Treasurer
Smt L. Nirmala
Dr. L. Papa Rao
Smt. Indira Priyadarsini
Sri B. Shravan
Sri Lavu Nageswara Rao
Sri Paturi Koteswara Rao
Sri P. Rama Yogeswara Rao
Vignan’s Foundation for Science, Technology, and Research (Vignan) met the accreditation requirements of the International Accreditation Organization (IAO) and was granted full accreditation.
Learn More
Vignan's Foundation for Science, Technology and Research
(Deemed to
be University), Vadlamudi, Guntur-522213
info@vignan.ac.in
0863-2344700 / 701
Students
Pay Tution Fee
Examinations
Internship
Portal
Slam book
Student-ExitFeedback
Outlook (Access
Mail)
Anti-Ragging
Grievance Redressal
Student Portal
Apply Online
Refund Policy
Others
Blog
Essential Contacts
Vignan TBI
Voice of Vignan
MHRD-NMEICT
Feedback
VU Today
Vignan Brand Mall
Academic Collaborations
SEDC
SDG (Sustainable Development Goals)
IKS (Indian Knowledge System)
Equal opportunity cell
Facilities for differently-abled
UGC e-Samadhan portal
NCTE
ITEP
Internal Portals
Accreditation
NAAC
DSIR
Certified
Copyrights © 2026 Vignan University. All rights reserved.
internal portals
Student
Internship Portal
Slam Book
Outlook ( Access Mails)
HEIs
DSIR Certified
OTHERS
SEDG
Blogs
MHRD- NMEICT
Copyrights © 2026 VFSTR. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Message
